-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 EGiFn5ACrEWrFa5USxfpy+dUjNwROe3KiJnYuzSS/4Yv7s/LQc+LrcHkCdc+ENlE
 9JSFmFyktyvu/ZfuU/xo8A==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001012870-98-001020.txt : 19980420
<SEC-HEADER>0001012870-98-001020.hdr.sgml : 19980420
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001012870-98-001020
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405/A
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19971228
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980417
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000002488
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941692300
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1227

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405/A
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07882
		FILM NUMBER:		98596652

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE AMD PL
		STREET 2:		P O BOX 3453
		CITY:			SUNNYVALE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94088-3453
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087322400
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405/A
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K405/A -- AMENDMENT NO. 1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
     
                             FORM 10-K/A (NO. 1)      
 
(MARK ONE)
 
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934.
 
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997
 
                                      OR
 
[_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.
 
    FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ________ TO ________
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-7882
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                 DELAWARE                          94-1692300

      (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION              (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
    OF INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)          IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
  ONE AMD PLACE, SUNNYVALE, CALIFORNIA                 94086

(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE  OFFICES)            (ZIP CODE)
 
      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (408) 732-2400
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 
                                            (NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
   (TITLE OF EACH CLASS)                      ON WHICH REGISTERED)
   ---------------------                     ----------------------
$.01 PAR VALUE COMMON STOCK                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates as of
February 25, 1998.
 
                               $3,092,910,944
 
  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.
 
                 142,646,957 shares as of February 25, 1998.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
  AMD, the AMD logo, and combinations thereof, Advanced Micro Devices, Vantis,
NexGen, K86, K86 RISC SUPERSCALAR, AMD-K5, AMD-K6, AMD-K7, SLAC, Nx586 and
Nx686 are either trademarks or registered trademarks of Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc. Microsoft, MS-DOS, Windows, Windows 95 and Windows NT are either
registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. Pentium is a
registered trademark and MMX is a trademark of Intel Corporation. Other terms
used to identify companies and products may be trademarks of their respective
owners.
 
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
  The statements in this report that are forward-looking are based on current
expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties that
could cause actual results to differ materially. The forward-looking
statements relate to operating results; anticipated cash flows; realization of
net deferred tax assets; capital expenditures; adequacy of resources to fund
operations and capital investments; the Company's ability to access external
sources of capital; the Company's ability to transition to new process
technologies; anticipated market growth; year 2000 expenses; the effect of
foreign currency hedging transactions; the effect of adverse economic
conditions in Asia; and the Dresden Fab 30 and FASL manufacturing facilities.
For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially, see such other risks and uncertainties as set forth below in this
report or detailed in the Company's other Securities and Exchange Commission
reports and filings.
 
GENERAL
 
  Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the state of
Delaware on May 1, 1969. The Company's mailing address and executive offices
are located at One AMD Place, Sunnyvale, California 94086, and its telephone
number is (408) 732-2400. Unless otherwise indicated, the terms "Company,"
"AMD" and "Registrant" in this report refer to Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
and its subsidiaries.
 
  AMD is a semiconductor manufacturer with manufacturing facilities in the
U.S. and Asia and sales offices throughout the world. The Company's products
include a wide variety of industry-standard integrated circuits (ICs) which
are used in many diverse product applications such as telecommunications
equipment, data and network communications equipment, consumer electronics,
personal computers (PCs) and workstations.
     
  The Company operates in one industry segment. For information with respect 
to sales and identifiable assets for the Company's geographic segments, refer 
to the information contained in Note 11 of the Financial Statements on page 
F-19 under the caption "Foreign and Domestic Operations.
     
  For a discussion of the risk factors related to the Company's business
operations please see the "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking
Statements" and "Risk Factors" sections set forth in Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
 
 Industry
 
  The IC market has grown dramatically over the past ten years, driven
primarily by the demand for electronic business and consumer products. Today,
ICs are used in virtually all products involving electronics, including
personal computers and related peripherals, voice and data communications and
networking products, facsimile and photocopy machines, home entertainment
equipment, industrial control equipment and automobiles.
 
  The market for ICs can be divided into separate markets for digital and
analog devices. AMD participates primarily in the market for digital ICs. The
three principal types of digital ICs used in most electronic systems are: (i)
memory circuits, (ii) logic circuits and (iii) microprocessors. Memory is used
to store data and programming instructions, logic is employed to manage the
interchange and manipulation of digital signals within a system, and
microprocessors are used for control and computing tasks. Set forth below is a
discussion of the principal segments of the digital IC market in which the
Company participates.
 
 The Memory Market
 
  Memory ICs store data or programs and are characterized as either volatile
or non-volatile. Volatile devices lose their stored information after
electrical power is shut off, while non-volatile devices retain their stored
information. The three most significant categories of semiconductor memory are
(i) Dynamic Random Access Memory (DRAM) and (ii) Static Random Access Memory
(SRAM), both of which are volatile memories, and (iii) non-volatile memory,
which includes Read-Only Memory (ROM), Flash memory and Erasable
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
Programmable Read-Only Memory (EPROM) devices. DRAM provides large capacity
"main" memory, and SRAM provides specialized high-speed memory. Flash and
other non-volatile memory devices are used in applications in which data must
be retained after power is turned off. The Company does not produce any DRAM
products, the largest segment of the memory market, or SRAM products.
 
  Several factors have contributed to an increasing demand for memory devices
during recent years including the expanding unit sales of personal computers
in the business and consumer market segments; the increasing use of personal
computers to perform memory-intensive graphics and multimedia functions; the
volume of memory required to support faster microprocessors; the proliferation
of increasingly complex personal computer software; and the increasing
performance requirements of workstations, servers and networking and
telecommunications equipment.
 
  The Company believes that Flash memory devices are being used for an
expanded use of operations. The ability of Flash memory devices to be
electrically rewritten to update parameters or system software provides
greater flexibility and ease of use than other non-volatile memory devices,
such as ROM or EPROM devices. Flash memory can be used to provide storage of
control programs and system-critical data in communication devices such as
cellular telephones and routers (devices used to transfer data between local
area networks). Another common application for Flash memory is in PC cards,
which are inserted into notebook and subnotebook computers or personal digital
assistants to provide added data storage.
 
 The Logic Market
 
  Logic devices consist of structurally interconnected groupings of simple
logical "AND" and logical "OR" functions, commonly described as "gates."
Typically, complex combinations of individual gates are required to implement
the specialized logic functions required for system applications. The greater
the number of gates on a logic device, the higher that logic device's
"density." Logic devices are generally grouped into five families of products
(from lowest density to highest density): standard logic devices, programmable
logic devices (PLDs), conventional gate-arrays, standard cells and full custom
ICs. Conventional gate-arrays, standard cells and full-custom ICs are often
referred to as application-specific ICs (ASICs).
 
  Many manufacturers of electronic systems are striving to develop new and
increasingly complex products to rapidly address evolving market
opportunities. Achievement of this goal often precludes the use of standard
logic ICs and ASICs. Standard logic ICs generally perform simple functions and
are not customizable, limiting a manufacturer's ability to adequately
customize an end system. Although ASICs can be manufactured to perform
customized functions, they generally involve relatively high up-front design,
engineering and manufacturing costs and significant design risks and may
increase an end-product's time to market. As a result, ASICs are generally
limited to high-volume products, and products for which time to market may be
less critical.
 
  Unlike ASICs and standard logic ICs, PLDs are standard products, purchased
by system manufacturers in an unprogrammed or "blank" state, which can be
programmed by each system manufacturer to perform a variety of specific logic
functions. Certain PLDs, including the Company's, are reprogrammable, which
means that the logic configuration can be modified after the device is
initially programmed, and, in many cases, while the PLD remains in the end-
product system. The programmable and reprogrammable characteristics of PLDs
reduce the risk of inventory obsolescence for system designers and
distributors by allowing them to stock a large number of standard PLDs that
may be programmed for a variety of applications. The system designer enjoys
the additional flexibility of having the ability to make last minute design
changes, reducing time to market and accelerating design cycle time. Compared
to standard logic ICs and ASICs, PLDs allow system designers to more quickly
design and implement custom logic.
 
  The PLD market consists primarily of three product categories, which can
generally be distinguished by their density: simple programmable logic devices
(SPLDs), which have less than 1,000 gates, are considered low-density devices,
while complex programmable logic devices (CPLDs), which have up to 20,000
gates, and field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs), which have up to 100,000
gates, are considered high-density devices.
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
  SPLDs are typically based on common architectures that are familiar to most
system designers and are supported by standard, widely available software
tools. SPLDs are usually the most effective solution to support simple logic
functions. However, as the prices of high-density PLDs become more
competitive, customers are increasingly migrating to CPLDs or FPGAs to address
complex logic requirements and space constraints and to achieve power savings.
Typically, the smallest CPLD is equivalent in logic function to, and occupies
nearly the same amount of space as, approximately four SPLDs.
 
  CPLDs and FPGAs are typically based on proprietary architectures and require
support from sophisticated software tools. In situations requiring complex
logic functions, high-density PLDs can provide important advantages over a
large cluster of low-density devices, including improved system speed, lower
power requirements and lower cost. The Company believes that a substantial
portion of high-density PLD customers utilize both CPLD and FPGA architectures
within a single system design, partitioning logic functions across multiple
devices to optimize overall system performance and cost.
 
  PLDs are used in complex electronic systems, including telecommunications
and networking systems, high-performance computers and peripherals, video
graphics and imaging systems, and instrumentation and test systems. PLDs are
also used in a variety of consumer electronic devices, and in medical
instrumentation and industrial control applications.
 
 The Microprocessor Market
 
  In 1981, IBM introduced its first PC containing a microprocessor based upon
the x86 instruction set developed by Intel Corporation (Intel) and utilizing
the Microsoft(R) Corporation (Microsoft) MS-DOS(TM) operating system. The so-
called IBM-compatible computer has evolved over the years with each successive
generation of x86 microprocessors. Each new generation of x86 microprocessors
has delivered increased performance and functionality while maintaining
software, hardware and peripheral compatibility for industry standard
operating systems such as Microsoft MS-DOS and Microsoft Windows(R). The
microprocessor market is currently dominated by Intel.
 
  The microprocessor, an IC generally consisting of millions of transistors,
serves as the central processing unit, or "brain," of a computer system. The
microprocessor is typically the most critical component to the performance and
efficiency of a PC. The microprocessor is responsible for controlling data
flowing through the electronic system, manipulating such data as specified by
the hardware or software which controls the system. Developments in circuit
design and very large scale integration process technology have resulted in
dramatic advances in microprocessor performance over the past ten years.
Today, the greatest demand for microprocessors is from personal computer
manufacturers and, in particular, for microprocessors which are Microsoft
Windows compatible and are based on the x86 instruction set. Improvements in
the performance characteristics of microprocessors, coupled with decreases in
production costs resulting from advances in process technology, have broadened
the market for PCs and increased the demand for microprocessors.
 
  Embedded processors are also an important segment of the microprocessor
market. Embedded processors are general purpose devices used to carry out a
single application with limited user interface and programmability. A system
designed around an embedded processor cannot usually be programmed by an end
user because the system is preprogrammed to execute a specific task. Key
markets for embedded processors include telecommunications, networking, office
automation, storage, automotive applications and industrial control.
 
  The microprocessor business is characterized by short product life cycles,
intense price competition and rapid advances in product design and process
technology resulting in rapidly occurring product obsolescence.
 
  The establishment of hardware and software standards for PCs and the
emergence of numerous PC suppliers have caused the PC industry to be extremely
competitive, with short product life cycles, limited product differentiation
and substantial price competition. To compete more effectively, almost all PC
suppliers have evolved from fully integrated manufacturers with proprietary
system designs to vendors focused on building
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
brand recognition and distribution capabilities. Almost all of these suppliers
now rely either on Intel or on third-party manufacturers for the major
subsystems of their PCs, such as the motherboard, and are increasingly
outsourcing the design and manufacture of complete systems. The third-party
suppliers of these subsystems, based primarily in Asia, are focused on
providing PCs and motherboards that incorporate the latest trends in features
and performance at low prices. Increasingly, these third-party suppliers are
also supplying fully configured PC systems through alternative distribution
channels.
 
BUSINESS GROUPS; PRODUCTS
     
  AMD participates in all three technology areas within the digital IC
market--memory circuits, logic circuits and microprocessors--through,
collectively, its Communications Group, its Memory Group, its Computation
Products Group (CPG) and its programmable logic subsidiary, Vantis
Corporation.      

COMMUNICATIONS GROUP
 
  Communications Group products ($707 million, or 30 percent, of the Company's
1997 net sales) include telecommunication products, networking and
input/output (I/O) products and embedded processors.
 
  Telecommunication Products. The Company's telecommunication products are
used primarily in public communications infrastructure systems and cordless
telephony applications. Specifically, the products are used in such equipment
as central office switches, digital loop carriers, wireless local loop
systems, private branch exchange (PBX) equipment and voice/data terminals.
Among the Company's more significant products for the communications market
are its line card products. In modern telephone communications systems, voice
communications are generally transmitted between the speaker and the central
office switch in analog format, but are switched and transmitted over longer
distances in digital format. The AMD subscriber line interface circuits (SLIC)
for line cards connect the user's telephone wire to the telephone company's
digital switching equipment. The AMD subscriber line audio processing circuits
(SLAC(TM)) line cards are coder/decoders which convert analog voice signals to
a digital format and back. The Company's non-cellular telephony products are
used in digital cordless phone solutions.
 
  Networking and I/0 Products. The Company's networking and I/O products are
used within personal computers to manage the connection of the personal
computer to local area networks and to manage selected input/output functions.
The Company's networking products primarily support data communications and
internetworking and are used in hubs, switches, routers and network interface
cards used to connect workstations and personal computers to local area
networks.
 
  The Company supplies integrated circuits for business applications utilizing
the 10-megabit-per-second, the 100-megabit-per-second and the gigabit-per-
second Ethernet local area network standards. The Company offers a range of
integrated circuits that work with central processing units to manage selected
input/output functions such as small computer system interface disk drive
controllers and communications and networking devices. The Company also
supplies a range of products specially designed to add additional functions,
improve performance and reduce costs in computer peripheral, interface or mass
storage applications. These are generally special-purpose products which are
designed for a specific application. In the case of some large customers,
these products are tailored for specific customers' needs.
 
  Embedded Processors. Embedded processors are general purpose devices,
consisting of an instruction control unit and an arithmetic and logic unit,
used to carry out a single application with limited user interface and
programmability. The Company's current product focus for embedded processors
utilizes existing x86 cores increasingly targeted at communications
applications. The Company offers a line of C186 and C188 processors for use as
embedded processors in hard disk drives. The Company offers an expanding range
of embedded processors based upon third- and fourth-generation x86
microprocessor technology, for both communications as well as handheld
computing applications.
 
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
MEMORY GROUP
 
  Memory Group products ($724 million, or 31 percent, of the Company's 1997
net sales) include Flash memory devices and EPROMs.
 
  Flash Memory. The Company's Flash memory devices are used in cellular
telephones, networking equipment and other applications which require memory
to be non-volatile and to be rewritten. Their ability to be electrically
rewritten provides greater flexibility and ease of use than EPROMs and other
similar integrated circuits which cannot be rewritten electrically.
Communications companies use Flash memory devices in cellular telephones and
related equipment to enable users to add and modify frequently called numbers
and to allow manufacturers to preprogram firmware and other information. In
networking applications, Flash memory devices are used in hubs, switches and
routers to enable systems to store firmware and reprogrammed Internet
addresses and other routing information.
 
  The market for Flash memory devices has experienced rapid unit growth and
continues to experience increased competition as additional manufacturers
introduce competitive products and industry-wide production capacity
increases. Almost all of the Company's Flash memory devices are produced in
Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan through the Company's joint venture with Fujitsu
Limited, Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited (FASL).
 
  EPROMs. EPROMs represent an older generation of erasable programmable read-
only memory technology which is used primarily in the electronic equipment
industry. The devices are used in cellular telephones, wireless base stations,
telecommunication switching equipment, automotive applications, personal
computer hard disk drives, printer controllers, industrial machine controls
and numerous other types of electronic equipment to store firmware which
controls the equipment's operation. The ability of EPROMs to be programmed
electrically enables equipment manufacturers to achieve shorter time to market
for new products than would otherwise be possible if they were required to
have specific integrated circuits manufactured containing their final firmware
programs. EPROMs are generally preferred to more expensive Flash memory
devices in applications in which it is not necessary to enable the end user to
reprogram the information stored on the integrated circuit. The market for
EPROMs is significantly smaller than the market for Flash memory devices and
the Company believes the market will continue to decline as EPROMs are
replaced in various applications by Flash memory devices.
 
COMPUTATION PRODUCTS GROUP
 
  CPG products ($682 million, or 29 percent, of the Company's 1997 net sales)
include microprocessors and core logic products, with the majority of CPG's
net sales being derived from Microsoft Windows compatible microprocessors
which are used primarily in personal computers.
 
  In 1997, the Company's most significant microprocessor product was the AMD-
K6(R) MMX(TM) Enhanced Processor, a sixth-generation microprocessor product
and a member of the K86(TM) microprocessor family. The K86 microprocessors are
based on Superscalar RISC architecture and are designed to be compatible with
operating system software such as MS-DOS, Windows 3.X, Windows 95(R), Windows
NT(R) and UNIX. In the second quarter of 1997, the Company began volume
shipments of the AMD-K6 microprocessor. The AMD-K6 microprocessor was designed
to be competitive in performance to Intel Corporation's sixth-generation
microprocessor, the Pentium(R) II, which was designed by Intel specifically
for desktop PCs.
 
  The Company's ability to increase microprocessor product revenues, and
benefit fully from the substantial financial investments and commitments it
has made and continues to make related to microprocessors, depends upon the
success of the AMD-K6 microprocessor in 1998 and future generations of K86
microprocessors in 1999 and beyond. The microprocessor market is characterized
by very short product life cycles and migration to ever higher performance
microprocessors. To compete successfully against Intel Corporation in this
market, the Company must transition to new process technologies at a faster
pace than before and offer higher performance microprocessors in significantly
greater volumes. The Company has recently experienced significant difficulty
in achieving its microprocessor yield and volume plans on 0.35 micron process
technology, which in turn has adversely affected the Company's results of
operations and liquidity. The Company has determined that it must
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
 
convert from 0.35 micron to 0.25 micron process technology in its Fab 25 in
Austin, Texas as soon as possible in order to meet customer microprocessor
needs for performance and volume, and to compete successfully against Intel.
The Company's process technology transition schedule is aggressive and entails
a high degree of risk. The Company's 0.25 micron process technology, while
successfully put into production in the Company's Submicron Development Center
in Sunnyvale, California, has not been qualified in Fab 25. There can be no
assurance that the Company will execute a successful transition to 0.25 micron
process technology in Fab 25, or that the Company will achieve the production
ramp necessary to meet customer needs for higher performance AMD-K6
microprocessors in the volumes customers require, or that the Company will
increase revenues sufficient to achieve profitability in the microprocessor
business. The failure to convert Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology on a
timely basis could adversely affect unit production yields and volumes, result
in the failure to meet customer demands, cause customers to cease purchasing
AMD-K6 microprocessors, and could impact the viability of the Company's
microprocessor business, any of which would have a material adverse effect on
the Company.
 
  AMD is also devoting substantial resources to the development of its
seventh-generation Microsoft Windows compatible microprocessor. The success of
the AMD-K7 and future generations of microprocessors depends greatly on the
Company achieving success and increasing market share with the AMD-K6
microprocessor.
 
  Intel has long held a dominant position in the market for microprocessors
used in PCs. Intel Corporation's dominant market position enables it to set
and control x86 microprocessor standards and thus dictate the type of product
the market requires of Intel Corporation's competitors. In addition, Intel
Corporation's financial strength and dominant position enable it to vary
prices on its microprocessor products at will and thereby affect the margins
and profitability of its competitors. In view of Intel Corporation's industry
dominance and brand strength, AMD prices the AMD-K6 microprocessor at least 25
percent below the published price of Intel processors offering comparable
performance. Thus, Intel Corporation's decisions on processor prices can
impact and has impacted the average selling prices of the AMD-K6
microprocessors, and consequently can impact and has impacted the Company's
margins. As an extension of its dominant microprocessor market share, Intel
also now dominates the PC platform, which has made it difficult for PC
manufacturers to innovate and differentiate their product offerings. The
Company does not have the financial resources to compete with Intel on such a
large scale.
 
  As Intel has expanded its dominance over the entirety of the PC system
platform, many PC original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) have reduced their
system development expenditures and have begun to purchase microprocessors in
conjunction with core logic chipsets or in assembled motherboards. The trend
has been for PC OEMs to be increasingly dependent on Intel, less innovative on
their own, and more of a distribution channel for Intel technology. In
marketing its microprocessors to these OEMs and dealers, AMD depends upon
companies other than Intel for the design and manufacture of chipsets,
motherboards, basic input/output system (BIOS) software and other components.
In recent years, these third-party designers and manufacturers have lost
significant market share to Intel. In addition, these companies are able to
produce chipsets, motherboards, BIOS software and other components to support
each new generation of Intel Corporation's microprocessors only if Intel makes
information about its products available to them in time to address market
opportunities. Delay in the availability of such information makes, and will
continue to make, it increasingly difficult for them to retain or regain
market share. To compete with Intel in this market in the future, the Company
intends to continue to form closer relationships with third-party designers
and manufacturers of chipsets, motherboards, BIOS software and other
components. The Company similarly intends to expand its chipset and system
design capabilities, and to offer OEMs licensed system designs incorporating
the Company's processors and companion products. There can be no assurance,
however, that such efforts by the Company will be successful.
    
  The Company's AMD K-6 microprocessor is based on the Nx686 microprocessor 
developed by NexGen, Inc. (NexGen). NexGen was founded in 1986 to design and 
market high performance microprocessors. In September 1994, NexGen began 
shipping its Nx586 processor to customers. In October 1995, NexGen announced 
the Nx686 processor technology, however, NexGen never introduced an Nx686 or 
other sixth-generation product in the market. On January 17, 1996, the Company
acquired NexGen in a tax-free reorganization in which NexGen was merged 
directly into the Company and all operations of NexGen were integrated into 
CPG. The merger was accounted for under the pooling-of-interest method.      
 
VANTIS CORPORATION
 
  In 1997, the Company transferred its operations relating to the design,
development and marketing of programmable logic devices (excluding bipolar
products) to a wholly owned subsidiary, Vantis Corporation (Vantis). Vantis
does not fabricate any of the silicon wafers used in the production of its
products. As a result, Vantis relies on the Company and others for
manufacturing. In addition, Vantis relies on the Company for certain
administrative and other services.
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
 
  Vantis products ($243 million, or 10 percent, of the Company's 1997 net
sales) include both complex and simple, high performance CMOS (complimentary-
metal-oxide-semiconductor) programmable logic devices (PLDs).
 
  PLDs are standard products purchased by system manufacturers in an
unprogrammed or "blank" state, which can be programmed by each system
manufacturer to perform a variety of specific logic functions. Certain PLDs,
including the Company's, are reprogrammable, which means that the logic
configuration can be modified after the device is initially programmed, and,
in many cases, while the PLD remains in the end-product system. PLDs are used
by manufacturers of telecommunications and networking systems, computers and
industrial and other electronic systems to reduce product development time and
costs and to improve system performance and reliability.
 
  Vantis has developed a broad product line of low-density and high-density
PLD products, including simple programmable logic devices and complex
programmable logic devices, and recently introduced its new line of field
programmable gate arrays. PLDs are used in complex electronic systems,
including telecommunications and networking systems, high-performance
computers and peripherals, video graphics and imaging systems, and
instrumentation and test systems. PLDs are also used in a variety of consumer
electronic devices, and in medical instrumentation and industrial control
applications.
 
  Customers utilizing programmable logic devices generally use special
software "fitters," usually provided by the suppliers of the programmable
logic devices, that allow electrical circuit designs to be implemented using
complex programmable logic devices. Vantis provides its PLD customers with
software fitters which it licenses from third parties and is dependent upon
third parties for continued development and maintenance of the software. The
Company recently initiated efforts to internally manage and control the
development and maintenance of software fitters for the Company's products. No
assurance can be given that the Company's efforts to internally develop and
maintain the software needed to sell and support its products will be
successful. An inability of Vantis to continue to obtain appropriate software
and improvements from third parties, to license alternative software from
another third party, or to successfully develop and maintain its own software
internally could materially adversely affect Vantis' business, including the
timing of new or improved product introductions, which could have a material
adverse effect on the Company.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT; MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY
 
  The Company's expenses for research and development in 1997, 1996 and 1995
were $468 million, $401 million and $417 million, respectively. Such expenses
represented 20 percent, 21 percent and 17 percent of net sales in 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively. The Company's research and development expenses are
charged to operations as incurred. Most of the Company's research and
development personnel are integrated into the engineering staff.
 
  Manufacturing technology is the key determinant in the improvement in
semiconductor products. Each new generation of process technology has resulted
in products with higher speeds and greater performance produced at lower cost.
AMD continues to make significant infrastructure investments to enable the
Company to continue to achieve high volume, high reliability and low cost
production using leading edge process technology.
 
  The Company's efforts concerning process technologies are focused in three
major areas: non-volatile memory technology used by Flash memory and EPROM
products; logic technology used by the Company's microprocessors, embedded
processors, I/O, networking and communications products; and programmable
logic technology used in the Vantis programmable logic products. The Company's
goals are to increase density and improve product performance, to reduce the
access time for non-volatile memory products and to increase the clock speed
for microprocessor products.
 
  In order to remain competitive, the Company must make continuing substantial
investments in improving its process technologies. In particular, the Company
has made and continues to make significant research and development
investments in the technologies and equipment used in the fabrication of its
microprocessor
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
 
products and in the fabrication of Flash memory devices. If the Company is not
successful in its microprocessor and Flash memory businesses, it will be
unable to recover such investments, which could have a material adverse effect
on the Company. In addition, any inability of the Company to remain
competitive with respect to process technology could have a material adverse
effect on the Company.
 
COMPETITION
 
  The IC industry is intensely competitive and, historically, has experienced
rapid technological advances in product and system technologies. After a
product is introduced, prices normally decrease over time as production
efficiency and competition increase, and as a successive generation of
products is developed and introduced for sale. Technological advances in the
industry result in frequent product introductions, regular price reductions,
short product life cycles and increased product capabilities that may result
in significant performance improvements. Competition in the sale of ICs is
based on performance, product quality and reliability, price, adherence to
industry standards, software and hardware compatibility, marketing and
distribution capability, brand recognition, financial strength and ability to
deliver in large volumes on a timely basis.
 
  In each particular market in which it participates, the Company faces
competition from different groups of companies. With respect to the
Communications Group product lines, the Company's principal competitors are
SGS Thomson, Texas Instruments, Siemens, NEC, LM Ericsson, Alcatel, National
Semiconductor, 3Com, Intel and Motorola. With respect to the Memory Group, the
Company's principal competitors are Intel, Sharp and Atmel. The Company
competes to a lesser degree with Fujitsu Limited, its joint venture partner in
FASL. With respect to microprocessors, Intel holds a dominant market position.
In Vantis' market, the Company's principal competitors are Altera, Lattice
Semiconductor, Xilinx and other smaller companies focused on programmable
logic device development and production.
 
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES
 
  The Company's current integrated circuit manufacturing facilities are
described in the chart set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   PRODUCTION      APPROX.
                                  WAFER SIZE       TECHNOLOGY     CLEAN ROOM
    FACILITY LOCATION        (DIAMETER IN INCHES) (IN MICRONS) (SQUARE FOOTAGE)
    -----------------        -------------------- ------------ ----------------
   <S>                       <C>                  <C>          <C>
   Austin, TX
     Fab 25.................          8           0.25 & 0.35       89,700
     Fab 15.................          6               0.7           22,000
     Fab 14.................          6               0.8           22,000
     Fab 10/1/..............          5               0.9           22,000
   Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan
     FASL/2/................          8            0.35 & 0.5       70,000
     FASL II................          8               0.35          91,000
   Sunnyvale, CA
     SDC....................        6 & 8             0.25          42,500
</TABLE>
- --------
(1)Fab 10 will decrease production levels and close by the end of 1998.
(2)The Company owns 49.992 percent of FASL. Fujitsu owns 50.008 percent of
 FASL.
 
  In the third quarter of 1997, FASL completed construction of the building
for a second manufacturing facility in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan (FASL II) at a
site contiguous to the existing FASL facility. In addition, the Company
commenced construction in the second quarter of 1997 of a manufacturing
facility in Dresden, Germany (Dresden Fab 30), through a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company. AMD also has foundry arrangements for the
production of its products by third parties.
 
                                      10
<PAGE>
 
  The Company's current assembly and test facilities are described in the
chart set forth below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   APPROX.
                                               ASSEMBLY & TEST
    FACILITY LOCATION                           SQUARE FOOTAGE     ACTIVITY
    -----------------                          ---------------- ---------------
   <S>                                         <C>              <C>
   Penang, Malaysia...........................     377,000      Assembly & Test
   Bangkok, Thailand..........................      77,000      Assembly & Test
   Singapore..................................      62,500           Test
</TABLE>
 
  In addition to the assembly and test facilities described above, AMD has a
50-year land lease in Suzhou, China, and is constructing an additional
assembly and test facility there. Foreign manufacturing and construction of
foreign facilities entails political and economic risks, including political
instability, expropriation, currency controls and fluctuations, changes in
freight and interest rates, and loss or modification of exemptions for taxes
and tariffs. For example, if AMD were unable to assemble and test its products
abroad, or if air transportation between the United States and the Company's
overseas facilities were disrupted, there could be a material adverse effect
on the Company.
 
  Certain Material Agreements. Set forth below are descriptions of certain
material contractual relationships of the Company relating to FASL and the
Company's Dresden Fab 30.
 
  FASL. In 1993, the Company and Fujitsu Limited (Fujitsu) formed a joint
venture, FASL, for the development and manufacture of non-volatile memory
devices. Through FASL, the two companies have constructed and are operating an
advanced integrated circuit manufacturing facility in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan,
to produce Flash memory devices. The facility began volume production in the
first quarter of 1995, and utilizes eight-inch wafer processing technologies
capable of producing products with geometrics of 0.5 micron or smaller.
Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture, the Company and Fujitsu have each
agreed not to independently produce Flash memory devices with geometrics of
0.5 micron or smaller outside of the joint venture.
 
  In the third quarter of 1997, FASL completed construction of the building
for a second Flash memory device wafer fabrication facility, FASL II, at a
site contiguous to the existing FASL facility. Equipment installation is in
progress and the facility is expected to cost approximately $1.1 billion when
fully equipped, which is anticipated in the second quarter of 2000. Capital
expenditures for FASL II construction to date have been funded by cash
generated from FASL operations and borrowings by FASL. To the extent that FASL
is unable to secure the necessary funds for FASL II, the Company may be
required to contribute cash or guarantee third-party loans in proportion to
its 49.992 percent interest in FASL. As of December 28, 1997, the Company had
loan guarantees of $48 million outstanding with respect to such loans. The
planned FASL II costs are denominated in yen and are therefore subject to
change due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations.
 
  In connection with FASL, the Company and Fujitsu have entered into various
joint development, cross-license and investment arrangements. Accordingly, the
Company and Fujitsu are providing their product designs and process and
manufacturing technologies to FASL. In addition, both companies are
collaborating in developing manufacturing processes and designing integrated
circuits for FASL. The right of each company to use the licensed intellectual
property of the other with respect to certain products is limited to certain
geographic areas. Consequently, the Company's ability to sell Flash memory
products incorporating Fujitsu intellectual property, whether or not produced
by FASL, is also limited in certain territories, including the United Kingdom
and Japan. Fujitsu is likewise limited in its ability to sell Flash memory
devices incorporating the Company's intellectual property, whether or not
produced by FASL, in certain territories including the United States and
Europe, other than the United Kingdom and Ireland.
 
  Dresden Fab 30. AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH (AMD Saxony), an indirect
wholly owned German subsidiary of the Company, is building a 900,000-square-
foot submicron integrated circuit manufacturing and design facility in
Dresden, in the State of Saxony, Germany over the next four years at a
presently estimated cost of approximately $1.9 billion. The Federal Republic
of Germany and the State of Saxony have agreed to
 
                                      11
<PAGE>
 
support the project in the form of guarantees of bank debt, investment grants
and subsidies and interest subsidies. In March 1997, AMD Saxony entered into a
loan agreement (the Dresden Loan Agreement) with a consortium of banks led by
Dresdner Bank AG. The plan for Dresden has been revised recently to reflect
planned upgrades in wafer production technology as well as the decline in the
deutsche mark relative to the U.S. dollar, which has increased the proportion
of the project to be funded by the Company rather than the Federal Republic of
Germany, the State of Saxony and the consortium of banks.
 
  In connection with the Dresden Loan Agreement, as amended in February 1998,
the Company has agreed to invest in AMD Saxony over the next two years equity
and subordinated loans, and to guarantee a portion of AMD Saxony's obligations
under the Dresden Loan Agreement until Dresden Fab 30 has been completed. In
addition, after completion of Dresden Fab 30, the Company has agreed to make
funds available to AMD Saxony if the subsidiary does not meet its fixed charge
coverage ratio covenant. The Company has agreed to fund certain contingent
obligations, including various obligations to fund project cost overruns, if
any.
 
  The Company commenced construction in the second quarter of 1997 and
completed construction of the building shell for the plant and administration
building at the end of 1997. The planned Dresden Fab 30 costs are denominated
in deutsche marks and, are therefore subject to change due to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations. The Company entered into foreign currency hedging
transactions for Dresden Fab 30 during the first quarter of 1997 and
anticipates entering into additional such foreign currency hedging
transactions in the first quarter of 1998 and in the future.
 
MARKETING AND SALES
 
  The Company's products are marketed and sold under the AMD trademark. AMD
employs a direct sales force through its principal facilities in Sunnyvale,
California, and field sales offices throughout the United States and abroad
(primarily Europe and Asia Pacific). AMD also sells its products through
third-party distributors and independent representatives in both domestic and
international markets pursuant to nonexclusive agreements. The distributors
also sell products manufactured by the Company's competitors, including those
products for which AMD is an alternate source. One of the Company's
distributors, Arrow Electronics, Inc., accounted for approximately 12 percent
of 1997 net sales. No other distributor or OEM customer accounted for 10
percent or more of net sales in 1997.
 
  Distributors typically maintain an inventory of the Company's products.
Pursuant to the Company's agreements with distributors, in most instances AMD
protects its distributors' inventory of the Company's products against price
reductions, as well as products that are slow moving or have been
discontinued. These agreements, which may be canceled by either party on a
specified notice, generally contain a provision for the return of the
Company's products in the event the agreement with the distributor is
terminated. The market for the Company's products is generally characterized
by, among other things, severe price competition, The price protection and
return rights AMD offers to its distributors could materially adversely affect
the Company if there is an unexpected significant decline in the price of the
Company's products.
 
  AMD derives a substantial portion of its revenues from its sales
subsidiaries located in Europe and Asia Pacific. AMD subsidiaries have offices
in Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, China, Finland, France, Germany, Hong
Kong, Italy, Japan, Korea, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. (See Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)
The international sales force also works with independent sales
representatives and distributors who sell the Company's products worldwide,
including countries where AMD has sales subsidiaries. The Company's
international sales operations entail political and economic risks, including
expropriation, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations, changes in
freight rates, and changes in rates and exemptions for taxes and tariffs.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
  Certain raw materials used by the Company in the manufacture of its products
are available from a limited number of suppliers. For example, several types
of the integrated circuit packages purchased by AMD, as well
 
                                      12
<PAGE>
 
as by the majority of other companies in the semiconductor industry, are
principally supplied by a few foreign companies. Shortages could occur in
various essential materials due to interruption of supply or increased demand
in the industry. If AMD were unable to procure certain of such materials, it
would be required to reduce its manufacturing operations which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company. To date, AMD has not experienced
significant difficulty in obtaining necessary raw materials.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
 
  The failure to comply with present or future governmental regulations
related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in the manufacturing process
could result in fines being imposed on the Company, suspension of production,
alteration of the Company's manufacturing processes or cessation of
operations. Such regulations could require the Company to acquire expensive
remediation equipment or to incur other expenses to comply with environmental
regulations. Any failure by the Company to control the use, disposal or
storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances
could subject the Company to future liabilities and could have a material
adverse effect on the Company.
 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING
 
  AMD and its subsidiaries have been granted over 1,400 United States patents,
and over 2,000 patent applications are pending in the United States. In
certain cases, the Company has filed corresponding applications in foreign
jurisdictions. The Company expects to file future patent applications in both
the United States and abroad on significant inventions as it deems
appropriate.
 
  In January of 1995, the Company and Intel reached an agreement to settle all
previously outstanding legal disputes between the two companies. As part of
the settlement, in December 1995, the Company signed a five-year,
comprehensive cross-license agreement with Intel which expires on December 31,
2000. The agreement provides that after December 20, 1999, the parties will
negotiate in good faith a patent cross-license agreement to be effective
January 1, 2001. The cross-license agreement gives the Company and Intel the
right to use each others' patents and certain copyrights, including copyrights
to the x86 instruction sets but excluding other microprocessor microcode
copyrights beyond the Intel 486 processor code. The cross-license is royalty-
bearing for the Company's products that use certain Intel technologies. The
Company is required to pay Intel minimum non-refundable royalties during the
years 1997 through 2000.
 
  In addition, AMD has entered into numerous cross-licensing and technology
exchange agreements with other companies under which it both transfers and
receives technology and intellectual property rights. Although the Company
attempts to protect its intellectual property rights through patents,
copyrights, trade secrets and other measures, there can be no assurance that
the Company will be able to protect its technology or other intellectual
property adequately or that competitors will not be able to develop similar
technology independently. There can be no assurance that any patent
applications that the Company may file will be issued or that foreign
intellectual property laws will protect the Company's intellectual property
rights. There can be no assurance that any patent licensed by or issued to the
Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the
rights granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently
develop similar products, duplicate the Company's products or design around
the Company's patents and other rights.
 
  From time to time, AMD has been notified that it may be infringing
intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted
against the Company, the Company may seek to obtain a license under the third
party's intellectual property rights. The Company could decide, in the
alternative, to resort to litigation to challenge such claims. Such challenges
could be extremely expensive and time-consuming and could materially adversely
affect the Company. No assurance can be given that all necessary licenses can
be obtained on satisfactory terms, or that litigation may always be avoided or
successfully concluded.
 
                                      13
<PAGE>
 
BACKLOG
 
  AMD manufactures and markets standard lines of products. Consequently, a
significant portion of its sales are made from inventory on a current basis.
Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, or
agreements covering purchases over a period of time, which are frequently
subject to revision and cancellation without penalty. Generally, in light of
current industry practice and experience, AMD does not believe that such
agreements provide meaningful backlog figures or are necessarily indicative of
actual sales for any succeeding period.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  On January 25, 1998, AMD and its subsidiaries employed approximately 12,800
employees, none of whom are represented by collective bargaining arrangements.
The Company believes that its relationship with its employees is generally
good.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's principal engineering, manufacturing, warehouse and
administrative facilities comprise approximately 3.33 million square feet and
are located in Sunnyvale, California and Austin, Texas. Over 2.26 million
square feet of this space is in buildings owned by the Company.
 
  The Company leases property containing two buildings with an aggregate of
approximately 360,000 square feet, located on 45.6 acres of land in Sunnyvale,
California (One AMD Place). These leases provide the Company with an option to
purchase One AMD Place for $40 million during the lease term. The lease term
ends in December 1998. At the end of the lease term, the Company is obligated
to either purchase One AMD Place or to arrange for its sale to a third party
with a guarantee of residual value to the seller equal to the option purchase
price. Alternatively, the Company may seek to renegotiate the terms of the
lease. In 1993, the Company entered into a lease agreement for approximately
175,000 square feet located adjacent to One AMD Place (known as AMD Square) to
be used by the product groups as engineering offices and laboratory
facilities. In addition, the Company entered into lease agreements for
approximately 83,950 square feet, also located adjacent to One AMD Place
(known as the Vantis Facility). A portion of AMD Square was allocated to
Vantis in 1995 and is currently used as its corporate headquarters. Vantis is
expected to relocate to the Vantis Facility in the first half of 1998.
 
  The Company also owns or leases facilities containing approximately 805,000
square feet for its operations in Malaysia, Thailand and Singapore. The
Company leases approximately 15 acres of land in Suzhou, China. In 1996, the
Company acquired approximately 103 acres of land in Dresden, Germany. Dresden
Fab 30 is encumbered by a lien securing borrowings of AMD Saxony. Fab 25 is
encumbered by a lien securing the Company's $400 million Senior Secured Notes
and its $400 million syndicated bank loan agreement.
 
  AMD leases 28 sales offices in North America, 9 sales offices in Asia
Pacific, 12 sales offices in Europe and one sales office in South America for
its direct sales force. These offices are located in cities in major
electronics markets where concentrations of the Company's customers are
located.
 
  Leases covering the Company's facilities expire over terms of generally one
to twenty years. The Company currently does not anticipate significant
difficulty in either retaining occupancy of any of its facilities through
lease renewals prior to expiration or through month-to-month occupancy, or
replacing them with equivalent facilities.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  1. Environmental Matters. Since 1981, the Company has discovered,
investigated and begun remediation of three sites where releases from
underground chemical tanks at its facilities in Santa Clara County,
California, adversely affected the groundwater. The chemicals released into
the groundwater were commonly in use in the semiconductor industry in the
wafer fabrication process prior to 1979. At least one of the released
chemicals (which is no longer used by the Company) has been identified as a
probable carcinogen.
 
                                      14
<PAGE>
 
  In 1991, the Company received four Final Site Clean-up Requirements Orders
from the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Francisco Bay
Region relating to the three sites. One of the orders named the Company as
well as TRW Microwave, Inc. and Philips Semiconductors Corporation. Another of
the orders named the Company as well as National Semiconductor Corporation.
     
  The three sites in Santa Clara County are on the National Priorities List
(Superfund). If the Company fails to satisfy federal compliance requirements
or inadequately performs the compliance measures, the government (a) can bring
an action to enforce compliance, or (b) can undertake the desired response
actions itself and later bring an action to recover its costs, and penalties,
which is up to three times the costs of clean-up activities, if appropriate.
The statute of limitations has been tolled on the claims of landowners 
adjacent to the Santa Clara County Superfund sites for causes of action such 
as negligence, nuisance and trespass.      
 
  The Company has computed and recorded the estimated environmental liability
in accordance with applicable accounting rules and has not recorded any
potential insurance recoveries in determining the estimated costs of the
cleanup. The amount of environmental charges to earnings has not been material
during any of the last three fiscal years. The Company believes that the
potential liability, if any, in excess of amounts already accrued with respect
to the foregoing environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect
on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
  2. McDaid v. Sanders, et al. (Case No. C-95-20750-JW, N.D. Cal.); Kozlowski,
et al. v. Sanders, et al. (Case No. C-95-20829-JW, N.D. Cal.). The McDaid
complaint was filed November 3, 1995 and the Kozlowski complaint was filed
November 15, 1995. Both actions allege violations of Section 10(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder, against
the Company and certain individual officers and directors (the Individual
Defendants), and purportedly were filed on behalf of all persons who purchased
or otherwise acquired common stock of the Company during the period April 11,
1995 through September 25, 1995. The complaints seek damages allegedly caused
by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material omissions by the
Company and the Individual Defendants regarding the Company's development of
its K5 microprocessor, which statements and omissions, the plaintiffs claim,
allegedly operated to inflate artificially the price paid for the Company's
common stock during the period. The complaints also allege that Company
statements regarding its K6 and K7 series microprocessors were materially
misleading. The complaints seek compensatory damages in an amount to be proven
at trial, fees and costs, and extraordinary equitable and/or injunctive
relief. The Court has consolidated both actions into one. Defendants filed
answers in the consolidated action in May 1996. The trial is scheduled to
commence on January 11, 1999. Based upon information presently known to
management, the Company does not believe that the ultimate resolution of this
lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
results of operations of the Company.
 
  3. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. v. Altera Corporation (Case No. C-94-20567-
RMW, N. D. Cal.). This litigation, which began in 1994, involves multiple
claims and counterclaims for patent infringement relating to the Company's and
Altera Corporation's programmable logic devices. In a trial held in May of
1996, a jury found that at least five of the eight AMD patents-in-suit were
licensed to Altera. As a result of the bench trial held on August 11 and 13,
1997, the Court held that Altera is licensed to the three remaining AMD
patents-in-suit (U.S. Patent Nos. 5,015,884; 5,225,719; and 5,151,623). Seven
patents were asserted by Altera in its counterclaim against the Company. The
Court determined that AMD is licensed to five of the seven patents and two
remain in suit. Altera filed a motion to recover attorneys' fees on November
17, 1997. The Company then filed, and the Court granted, a motion to stay
determination of the attorney's fees motion until resolution of its appeal.
The Company has filed an appeal of the rulings of the jury and Court
determinations that Altera is licensed to each of the Company's eight patents-
in-suit. Based upon information presently known to management, the Company
does not believe that the ultimate resolution of this lawsuit will have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of
the Company.
 
  4. Other Matters. The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various other
actions which arose in the normal course of business. In the opinion of
management, the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the
Company.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
 
 
                                      15
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
  The Company's common stock (symbol AMD) is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of the
Company's common stock for each quarter within the two most recent fiscal
years:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         DEC. 28, SEPT. 28, JUNE 29, MAR. 30,  DEC. 29, SEPT. 29,  JUNE 30, MAR. 31,
                           1997      1997     1997     1997      1996      1996      1996     1996
                         -------- --------- -------- --------- -------- ---------- -------- --------
<S>                      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>
Common stock market
 price range
  High.................. $ 32.75   $ 42.50  $ 45.00   $ 47.38  $ 28.38   $ 16.25   $ 19.88  $ 21.25
  Low................... $ 17.56   $ 31.25  $ 35.50   $ 25.75  $ 14.13   $ 10.25   $ 12.88  $ 16.13
</TABLE>
     
  The Company has never paid cash dividends on common stock and has no present
plans to do so. Certain of the Company's financing agreements contain
restrictive covenants that prohibit the payment of dividends. The number of
stockholders of record at January 31, 1998 was 10,190. During 1997, there were
no sales by the Company of its equity securities which were not registered
under the Securities Act of 1933.     
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  The consolidated financial data set forth below for each of the years in the
five-year period ended December 28, 1997 are derived from the consolidated
financial statements that have been audited by Ernst & Young LLP, independent
auditors. The selected financial data set forth below should be read in
conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" and the Company's consolidated financial statements
and the notes thereto included herein.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    FIVE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997
                          ----------------------------------------------------------
                             1997        1996        1995        1994        1993
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                   (THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                       <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
NET SALES...............  $2,356,375  $1,953,019  $2,468,379  $2,155,453  $1,648,280
Expenses:
  Cost of sales.........   1,578,438   1,440,828   1,417,007   1,013,589     789,564
  Research and
   development..........     467,877     400,703     416,521     295,326     279,412
  Marketing, general and
   administrative.......     400,713     364,798     412,651     377,503     296,912
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                           2,447,028   2,206,329   2,246,179   1,686,418   1,365,888
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating income (loss).     (90,653)   (253,310)    222,200     469,035     282,392
Litigation settlement...         --          --          --      (58,000)        --
Interest income and
 other, net.............      35,097      59,391      32,465      17,134      16,931
Interest expense........     (45,276)    (14,837)     (3,059)     (4,410)     (4,398)
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Income (loss) before
 income taxes and equity
 in joint venture.......    (100,832)   (208,756)    251,606     423,759     294,925
Provision (benefit) for
 income taxes...........     (55,155)    (85,008)     70,206     142,232      85,935
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Income (loss) before
 equity in joint
 venture................     (45,677)   (123,748)    181,400     281,527     208,990
Equity in net income
 (loss) of joint
 venture................      24,587      54,798      34,926     (10,585)       (634)
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
NET INCOME (LOSS).......     (21,090)    (68,950)    216,326     270,942     208,356
Preferred stock
 dividends..............         --          --           10      10,350      10,350
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
NET INCOME (LOSS)
 APPLICABLE TO COMMON
 STOCKHOLDERS...........  $  (21,090) $  (68,950) $  216,316  $  260,592  $  198,006
NET INCOME (LOSS) PER
 COMMON SHARE
  Basic                   $    (0.15) $    (0.51) $     1.69  $     2.22  $     1.75
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
  Diluted...............  $    (0.15) $    (0.51) $     1.57  $     2.03  $     1.64
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Shares used in per share
 calculation:
  Basic.................     140,453     135,126     127,680     117,597     113,159
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
  Diluted...............     140,453     135,126     137,698     133,674     126,925
                          ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Long-term debt and
 capital lease
 obligations less
 current portion........  $  662,689  $  444,830  $  214,965     $75,752     $90,066
Total assets............  $3,515,271  $3,145,283  $3,078,467  $2,525,721  $1,944,953
</TABLE>
 
 
                                      16
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
  The statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations that are forward-looking are based on
current expectations and beliefs and involve numerous risks and uncertainties
that could cause actual results to differ materially. The forward-looking
statements relate to operating results; anticipated cash flows; realization of
net deferred tax assets; capital expenditures; adequacy of resources to fund
operations and capital investments; the Company's ability to access external
sources of capital; the Company's ability to transition to new process
technologies; anticipated market growth; year 2000 expenses; the effect of
foreign currency hedging transactions; the effect of adverse economic
conditions in Asia; and the Dresden Fab 30 and FASL manufacturing facilities.
See Financial Condition and Risk Factors below, as well as such other risks
and uncertainties as are detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange
Commission reports and filings for a discussion of the factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements.
 
  The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the included
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto at December 28, 1997 and
December 29, 1996 and for each of the three years in the period ended December
28, 1997.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
     
  AMD participates in all three technology areas within the digital IC market--
memory circuits, logic circuits and microprocessors--through, collectively,
its Memory Group, its Communications Group, its Computation Products Group
(CPG) and Vantis. During 1996, the Company's operations were reorganized into
different business groups. Results for all periods have been reclassified to
conform to the current presentation. Memory Group products include Flash
memory devices and EPROM devices. Communications Group products include
telecommunication products, networking and I/O products, and embedded
processors. CPG products include microprocessors and core logic products.
Vantis products are complex and simple, high performance CMOS PLDs.      
 
  The following is a summary of the net sales of the Memory Group,
Communications Group, CPG and Vantis for 1997, 1996 and 1995:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             1997   1996   1995
                                                            ------ ------ ------
                                                                 (MILLIONS)
   <S>                                                      <C>    <C>    <C>
   Memory Group............................................ $  724 $  698 $  701
   Communications Group....................................    707    666    733
   CPG.....................................................    682    341    778
   Vantis..................................................    243    248    256
                                                            ------ ------ ------
    Total.................................................. $2,356 $1,953 $2,468
                                                            ====== ====== ======
</TABLE>
 
RECENT AND ANTICIPATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
     
  In the fourth quarter of 1997, revenues were approximately $613 million and
the net loss was approximately $12 million. The Company expects revenues in the
first quarter of 1998 to decline significantly, and the net loss to increase
significantly as compared to the fourth quarter of 1997 due primarily to the
Company's inability to produce AMD K-6 microprocessors to meet customer demand
because of manufacturing yield problems that limited production as well as a
slowdown in the semiconductor industry, precipitated in part by the Asian
economic crisis and by a decrease in customer demand for non-microprocessor
products.     
 
REVENUE COMPARISON OF YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997 AND DECEMBER 29, 1996
     
  1997 net sales of $2.4 billion increased approximately 21 percent from 
1996 due primarily to increased sales of AMD K-6 microprocessors which were 
introduced near the end of the first quarter of 1997.     
     
  Memory Group net sales increased as increased demand led to substantial
Flash memory device unit growth, which more than offset significant declines
in average selling price. EPROM product net sales decreased due to a decline
in both the average selling price and unit shipments as customer demand
continued to shift to Flash memory from EPROMs.     

                                      17
<PAGE>
 
    
  Communications Group net sales increased slightly primarily due to increased
unit shipments of the Company's telecommunication products. This increase was
partially offset by a decline in the average selling price and unit volume of 
the Company's mature network products.      

  CPG net sales doubled largely due to sales of AMD-K6 microprocessors, which
became available at the end of the first quarter of 1997. This sales growth
was partially offset by decreased sales of earlier generations of
microprocessors. These earlier generations of product represented most of the
Company's microprocessor sales in 1996. CPG sales growth in 1998 is dependent
on a successful transition to the 0.25 micron process technology in Fab 25 in
order to meet customer microprocessor needs for performance and volume.
     
  Vantis net sales decreased slightly due to declines in the average selling
price of both SPLDs and CPLDs caused by increased competition. These decreases
were partially offset by increased customer demand which led to increases in
unit shipments of both CPLDs and SPLDs.    

REVENUE COMPARISON OF YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 29, 1996 AND DECEMBER 31, 1995
    
  1996 net sales of $2.0 billion decreased approximately 21 percent from 1995 
due primarily to decreased sales of AMD microprocessors as the Company's AMD 
K-5 microprocessor was introduced relatively late in the life cycle for 
fifth-generation microprocessors.      
 
  Memory Group net sales were relatively flat. In 1996, the market for the
Company's Flash memory devices saw increasing competition, resulting in
falling prices which offset the substantial increase in unit shipments.
 
  Communications Group net sales decreased in 1996, primarily due to a decline
in unit shipments of logic products and secondarily due to a decline in the
average selling prices of network products. These decreases were partially
offset by increases in unit shipments of telecommunication products.
 
  The decline in CPG sales was due to increased market acceptance of higher
performance fifth-generation microprocessors from Intel Corporation (Intel),
coupled with the Company's delay in introducing competitive fifth-generation
microprocessors. The Company's fifth-generation microprocessor, the AMD-K5
microprocessor, was introduced relatively late in the life cycle of fifth-
generation products.
 
  Vantis net sales decreased in 1996 due to lower unit shipments. The Company
believes this decrease was caused by decreased market demand in the simple
programmable logic market.
 
COMPARISON OF EXPENSES, GROSS MARGIN PERCENTAGE AND INTEREST INCOME AND OTHER,
NET
 
  The following is a summary of expenses, gross margin percentage and interest
income and other, net for 1997, 1996 and 1995:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     1997      1996      1995
                                                   --------  --------  --------
                                                      (MILLIONS EXCEPT FOR
                                                    GROSS MARGIN PERCENTAGE)
   <S>                                             <C>       <C>       <C>
   Cost of sales.................................. $  1,578  $  1,441  $  1,417
   Gross margin percentage........................       33%       26%       43%
   Research and development....................... $    468  $    401  $    417
   Marketing, general and administrative..........      401       365       413
   Interest income and other, net.................       35        59        32
   Interest expense...............................       45        15         3
</TABLE>
     
  Gross margin percentage in 1997 increased primarily due to increased sales
in microprocessors manufactured in Fab 25, resulting in the 21 percent
increase in sales despite relatively disappointing yields on the AMD-K6
microprocessor. The decline in gross margin in 1996 was primarily due to lower
sales, underutilization of Fab 25, and increased purchases by the Company of
Flash memory devices from its manufacturing joint venture with Fujitsu
Limited, Fujitsu AMD Semiconductor Limited (FASL), at contract prices that
were higher than the costs of similar products manufactured internally. The
Company expects almost all purchases of Flash memory devices in the future
will be from FASL.  Gross margin in fiscal 1995 was negatively impacted by 
approximately $50 million of fourth quarter provisions related to NexGen 
inventory valuation and contract manufacturing commitments.  The inventory 
provisions were primarily required as a result of the microprocessor market 
demand continuing to shift towards higher speed and higher performance products 
in relation to NexGen's existing product offerings.  Demand for NexGen products 
was further impacted by Intel's announcement of price reductions on its higher 
performing microprocessor products.  This decreased demand and lower selling 
prices, coupled with fixed inventory purchase commitments, led to the recording 
of inventory write downs to the lower of cost or market.     
 
  Research and development expenses increased in 1997 due to a higher
proportion of research and development activities in the Submicron Development
Center, primarily to support CPG and the Memory Group. The decrease from 1995
to 1996 was due to the commencement of production at Fab 25 in the third
quarter of 1995, when Fab 25 costs transitioned from research and development
to cost of sales.
 
                                      18
<PAGE>
 
  Marketing, general and administrative expenses increased in 1997, primarily
due to higher advertising and marketing expenses associated with the
introduction of the AMD-K6 microprocessor. Additionally, business systems
expenses increased due to new system installation and system upgrade expenses.
The decrease from 1995 to 1996 was primarily due to the cessation of expenses
associated with products from NexGen, which the Company no longer offers,
coupled with effective expense controls.
 
  Interest income and other, net decreased in 1997 due to realized gains in
1996 of approximately $41 million from equity securities sales, which were
partially offset by higher interest income in 1997 as a result of higher cash
balances. The increase from 1995 to 1996 was due to realized gains of
approximately $41 million from equity securities sold during 1996, which were
partially offset by lower interest income as a result of lower cash balances
and lower interest rates during 1996. Interest expense increased in all cases
due to increasing debt balances, including the Company's $400 million Senior
Secured Notes sold in August 1996 and the $250 million four-year secured term
loan entered into in January 1997. The 1997 increase is partially offset by
higher capitalized interest related to the second phase of construction of Fab
25 and construction of Dresden Fab 30.
 
INCOME TAX
 
  The Company recorded tax benefits of $55 million and $85 million in 1997 and
1996, respectively, resulting in an effective tax benefit rate of
approximately 55 percent and 41 percent in 1997 and 1996, respectively. The
income tax rate was approximately 28 percent for 1995. The higher tax benefit
rate in 1997 is attributable to higher state tax benefits and increased
relative foreign tax benefits. Realization of the Company's net deferred tax
assets ($64 million at December 28, 1997) is dependent on future taxable
income. While the Company believes that it is more likely than not that such
assets will be realized, other factors, including those mentioned in the
discussion of Risk Factors, may impact the ultimate realization of such
assets.
 
OTHER ITEMS
     
  International sales were 57, 53 and 56 percent of total sales in 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively. During 1997, approximately 12 percent of the Company's
net sales were denominated in foreign currencies. The Company does not have
sales denominated in local currencies in those countries which have highly
inflationary economies. (A highly inflationary economy is defined in
accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 52 as one
in which the cumulative inflation over a three-year consecutive period
approximates 100 percent or more.) While, to date, the impact on sales of the
economic crisis in Asia has been immaterial, the Company has recently
experienced slightly lower than expected demand in Asia, primarily in its
telecommunication products. The impact on the Company's operating results from
changes in foreign currency rates individually and in the aggregate has not
been material. The Company anticipates that the Asian economic crisis may 
continue to affect adversely the Company's results of operations and further 
decline of the economic crisis in Asia could have a material adverse effect on 
the Company's results of operations.     
     
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES      
 
  Cash flow from operating activities was approximately $399 million in 1997,
compared to $89 million and $545 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively. Net
operating cash flows in 1997 increased year over year due to a reduction in
net loss of $48 million combined with increases in non-cash adjustments to net
loss of $143 million and an increase in the net change in operating assets and
liabilities of $119 million. The increased non-cash adjustments resulted
primarily from increased depreciation and amortization, a reduction in net
gain on the sale of available-for-sale securities and a reduction in
undistributed income of joint venture. The increase in the net change in
operating assets and liabilities resulted from an increase in payables and
recovery of tax refund receivables offset in part by increases in accounts
receivable, prepaid expenses and inventories.
 
  Investing activities consumed $633 million in cash during 1997,
substantially all of which consisted of capital expenditures, compared to $276
million and $706 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively. Capital expenditures
totaled $685 million in 1997, up from $485 million in 1996, as the Company
continued to invest in property, plant and equipment primarily for Fab 25 and
Dresden Fab 30. Capital expenditures in 1996 were offset by net proceeds from
the sale of short-term investments of approximately $207 million. Investing
activities in
 
                                      19
<PAGE>
 
1995 included primarily capital expenditures of $626 million combined with net
purchases of short-term investments of $67 million and investment in joint
venture of $18 million.
 
  The Company's financing activities provided cash of $309 million in 1997,
compared to $227 million and $202 million in 1996 and 1995, respectively.
Financing sources of cash primarily included borrowings from a $250 million
four-year secured term loan in 1997, the sale of $400 million of Senior
Secured Notes in 1996 (the Senior Secured Notes) and borrowings from a $150
million four-year term loan in 1995. The above sources were offset by the debt
repayments of $80 million, $253 million and $143 million in 1997, 1996 and
1995, respectively. Financing activities for all years presented include
issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, as well as $66 million in
1995 from the issuance of stock in NexGen in connection with its initial
public offering.
 
  The Company plans to continue to make significant capital investments, at a
significantly higher rate than in previous years. These investments include
those relating to the conversion of Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology
and the construction and facilitization of Dresden Fab 30.
    
  The conversion on Fab 25 from 0.35 to 0.25 micron process technology is 
anticipated to be completed in 1998 at a cost in 1998 of approximately $351 
million, although, there can be no assurance that the actual amount will not 
vary materially.      
       
  Dresden Fab 30 is being constructed by AMD Saxony, an indirect wholly owned
German subsidiary of the Company.  This 900,000-square-foot submicron integrated
circuit manufacturing and design facility is to be completed over the next four
years.  The project is being supported by the Company together with the Federal
Republic of Germany, the State of Saxony and a consortium of banks.  The plan
for Dresden Fab 30 was revised in February 1998 to reflect planned upgrades in
wafer production technology as well as the decline in the deutsche mark relative
to the U.S. dollar, which has increased the proportion of the project to be
funded by the Company rather than the Federal Republic of Germany, the State of
Saxony and the consortium of banks. The Company entered into foreign currency
hedging transactions for Dresden Fab 30 during the first quarter of 1997 and
anticipates entering into additional such foreign currency hedging transactions
in the first quarter of 1998 and in the future.

  The present estimated construction cost of Dresden Fab 30 is approximately
$1.9 billion. In March 1997, AMD Saxony entered into a Loan Agreement (the
Dresden Loan Agreement), denominated in deutsche marks, with a consortium of
banks led by Dresdner Bank AG under which loan facilities totaling $932 million
will be made available for the Dresden Fab 30 project.  In connection with the
Dresden Loan Agreement, as amended, the Company has agreed to invest in AMD
Saxony over the next two years equity and subordinated loans in an amount
totaling approximately $270 million ($100 million in 1998 and $170 million in
1999), and to guarantee a portion of AMD Saxony's obligations under the Dresden
Loan Agreement up to a maximum of approximately $123 million until Dresden Fab
30 has been completed . AMD is required to fund $70 million of the $170 million
due in 1999 on an accelerated basis as follows: (i) if the Company undertakes a
sale or other placement of its stock in the capital markets in 1998, the $70
million will be funded upon receipt of the offering proceeds; (ii) if the
Company generates $140 million of net income (as defined in the Indenture for
the Senior Secured Notes) in 1998, the $70 million will be funded prior to
January 31, 1999; (iii) if the      

                                      20
<PAGE>
 
    
Company does not fund through (i) or (ii) above, the Company will fund the
maximum amount allowed under the Indenture for the Senior Secured Notes by
January 31, 1999 and will fund the remaining amount through the sale of at least
$200 million of the Company's stock by June 30, 1999. Because the Company's
obligations under the Dresden Loan Agreement are denominated in deutsche mark,
the dollar amounts set forth herein are subject to change based on applicable
conversion rates.     
    
  In addition, after completion of Dresden Fab 30, the Company has agreed to
make funds available to AMD Saxony up to approximately $82 million if the
subsidiary does not meet its fixed charge coverage ratio covenant.  The Company
has also agreed to fund certain contingent obligations, including various
obligations to fund project cost overruns, if any, and to fund shortfalls in
government subsidies resulting from a default under the subsidy agreements
caused by AMD Saxony or its affiliates, if any.     
    
  The Federal Republic of Germany and the State of Saxony have agreed to
support the Dresden Fab 30 project in the form of (i) guarantees of 65 percent
of bank debt to be incurred by AMD Saxony up to a maximum of $932 million, (ii)
investment grants and subsidies totaling $283 million and (iii) interest
subsidies from the State of Saxony totaling $169 million, all of which are
denominated in deutsche marks in the applicable agreements.  In the event the
grants or subsidies are delayed, the Company is obligated, as requested by AMD
Saxony, to provide interim funding, such interim funding will be repaid to the
Company as the grants and subsidies are received by AMD Saxony.  As of March 29,
1998, the Company has invested $170 million in AMD Saxony.  The remaining $161
million required to complete Dresden Fab 30 is to be provided from cash
generated by AMD Saxony from 1999 to 2001, which will be derived from sales of
wafers to the Company.     
         
  Defaults under the Dresden Loan Agreement include the failure of the
Company, AMD Saxony or AMD Holding to comply with obligations under the Dresden
Loan Agreement, the government subsidy and grant agreements and related
documents, including material variances from the approved schedule and budget,
the Company's failure to fund equity contributions or shareholder loans or
otherwise comply with its obligations relating to the Dresden Loan Agreement,
the sale of shares in AMD Saxony or AMD Holding, the failure to pay material
obligations, the occurrence of a material adverse change or filings or
proceedings in bankruptcy or insolvency with respect to the Company, AMD Saxony
or AMD Holding and the occurrence of a default under the Credit Agreement or the
Indenture. Generally, any such default which either (i) results from the
Company's non-compliance with the Dresden Loan Agreement and is not cured by the
Company or (ii) results in recourse to the Company of more than $10 million and
is not cured by the Company, would result in a cross-default under the Credit
Agreement and the Indenture.    
         
         
      
  The FASL joint venture completed construction of the building for a second
Flash memory device wafer fabrication facility, FASL II, in the third quarter
of 1997 at a site contiguous to the existing FASL facility in Aizu-Wakamatsu,
Japan. Equipment installation is in progress and the facility is expected to
cost approximately $1.1 billion when fully equipped, which is anticipated in
the second quarter of 2000. Approximately $260 million of such cost has been
funded as of March 1998. Capital expenditures for FASL II construction to date
have been funded by cash generated from FASL operations and borrowings by FASL
and during the remainder of 1998 the Company presently anticipates that such
capital expenditures will continue to be funded by cash generated from FASL
operations and borrowings by FASL. However, to the extent that FASL is unable
to secure the necessary funds for FASL II, the Company may be required to
contribute cash or guarantee third-party loans in proportion to its 49.992
percent interest in FASL. At December 28, 1997 AMD had loan guarantees of $48
million outstanding with respect to such loans. The planned FASL II costs are
denominated in yen and are therefore subject to change due to foreign exchange
rate fluctuations.      

  In 1996, the Company entered into a syndicated bank loan agreement (the Credit
Agreement), which provided for a $150 million three-year secured revolving line
of credit (which is currently unused) and a $250 million four-year secured term
loan. All of the secured term loan is outstanding at December 28, 1997. The
secured loan is repayable in eight equal quarterly installments of approximately
$31 million commencing in October 1998. As of December 28, 1997, the Company
also had available unsecured uncommitted bank lines of credit in the amount of
$67 million, of which $7 million was outstanding.
     
  In February 1998, certain of the covenants under the Credit Agreement,
including those related to the modified quick ratio, minimum tangible net
worth and fixed charge coverage ratio, were amended at the request of the
Company. The Company sought to amend the covenants because otherwise it risked
violating certain of the covenants unless it scaled back on its business and
capital investment plan. As of March 31, 1998, the Company is in compliance
with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. However, the Company will be
required to raise $300-400 million of funds through external financing in the
second quarter of 1998 in order to meet certain of these amended covenants and
to continue to make the substantial capital investments required to convert
Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology, as well as for other ongoing capital
investments. The Company has filed a shelf registration statement for the
offering of debt or equity securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended.      
          
     
  In the event the Company is unable to meet its obligation to make loans to,
or equity investments in, AMD Saxony as required under the Dresden Loan
Agreement, AMD Saxony will be unable to complete Dresden Fab 30 and the
Company will be in default under the Dresden Loan Agreement, the Credit
Agreement and the Indenture, which would permit acceleration of indebtedness,
which would have a material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the funds necessary to
fulfill these obligations and any such failure would have a material adverse
effect on the Company.      
     
  The Company has historically been able to raise external financing to fund
its capital expenditures and believes that cash flows from operations and
current cash balances, together with external financing activities during
1998, will be sufficient to fund operations and capital investments currently
planned through 1998.      
    
RECENTLY ISSUED FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

  In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an 
Enterprise and Related Information (SFAS 131), which is effective for years 
beginning after December 15, 1997. SFAS 131 establishes standards for the way 
that public business enterprises report information about operating segments 
in annual financial statements and requires that those enterprises report 
selected information about operating segments in interim financial reports. It
also establishes standards for related disclosures about products and 
services, geographic areas, and major customers. SFAS 131 will first be 
reflected in the Company's 1998 Annual Report. Management has not completed 
its review of SFAS 131, and accordingly has not evaluated the effect on the 
Company's reported segment.
     

RISK FACTORS
 
  The Company's business, results of operations and financial condition are
subject to a number of risk factors, including the following:
 
 Financing Requirements
 
  The Company plans to continue to make significant capital investments, at a
significantly higher rate than in previous years. These investments include
those relating to the conversion of Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology
and the construction and facilitization of Dresden Fab 30.
    
  Equipment installation is in progress at FASL II and the facility is
expected to cost approximately $1.1 billion when fully equipped, which is
anticipated in the second quarter of 2000. Capital expenditures for FASL II
construction to date have been funded by cash generated from FASL operations
and borrowings by FASL. To the extent that FASL is unable to secure the
necessary funds for FASL II, the Company may be required to contribute cash or
guarantee third-party loans in proportion to its 49.992 percent interest in
FASL.      

                                      21
<PAGE>
 
  In 1996, the Company entered into a syndicated bank loan agreement (the
Credit Agreement), which provided for a $150 million three-year secured
revolving line of credit (which is currently unused) and a $250 million four-
year secured term loan. All of the secured term loan is outstanding at
December 28, 1997. The secured loan is repayable in eight equal quarterly
installments of approximately $31 million commencing in October 1998.
 
  In February 1998, certain of the covenants under the Credit Agreement were
amended. The Company will be required to raise funds through external
financing in the second quarter of 1998 in order to meet certain of these
amended covenants and to continue to make the substantial capital investments
required to convert Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology, as well as for
other ongoing capital investments.
 
  In March 1997, the Company's indirect wholly owned subsidiary, AMD Saxony,
entered into a Loan Agreement (the Dresden Loan Agreement) with a consortium
of banks led by Dresdner Bank AG. Under the terms of the February 1998
amendments to the Dresden Loan Agreement, the Company is required to make
subordinated loans to, or equity investments in, AMD Saxony, totaling $100
million in 1998 and $170 million in 1999. AMD is required to fund $70 million
of the 1999 amount on an accelerated basis as follows: (i) if the Company
undertakes a sale or other placement of its stock in the capital markets in
1998, the $70 million will be funded upon receipt of the offering proceeds;
(ii) if the Company generates $140 million of net income (as defined in the
Indenture for the Senior Secured Notes) in 1998, the $70 million will be
funded prior to January 31, 1999; (iii) if the Company does not fund through
(i) or (ii) above, the Company will fund the maximum amount allowed under the
Indenture for the Senior Secured Notes by January 31, 1999 and will fund the
remaining amount through the sale of at least $200 million of the Company's
stock by June 30, 1999.
 
  In the event the Company is unable to obtain the external financing
necessary to meet its covenants under the Credit Agreement, it will also be
unable to fund its capital investments planned for 1998. In addition, in the
event the Company is unable to meet its obligation to make loans to, or equity
investments in, AMD Saxony as required under the Dresden Loan Agreement, AMD
Saxony will be unable to complete Dresden Fab 30 and the Company will be in
default under the Dresden Loan Agreement, the Credit Agreement and the
Indenture, which would permit acceleration of indebtedness, which would have a
material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that the
Company will be able to obtain the funds necessary to fulfill these
obligations and any such failure would have a material adverse effect on the
Company.
 
 Microprocessor Products
 
  Investment in and Dependence on K86 AMD Microprocessor Products; Transition
to 0.25 Micron Process. The Company's microprocessor business has in the past,
and will in 1998, continue to significantly impact the Company's revenues,
margins and operating results. The Company plans to continue to make
significant capital expenditures to support the microprocessor business in
1998, which will be a substantial drain on the Company's cash flow and cash
balances.
     
  The Company's ability to increase microprocessor product revenues, and
benefit fully from the substantial financial investments and commitments it
has made and continues to make related to microprocessors, depends upon the
success of the AMD-K6 microprocessor in 1998 and future generations of K86
microprocessors in 1999 and beyond. The microprocessor market is characterized
by very short product life cycles and migration to ever higher performance
microprocessors. To compete successfully against Intel Corporation in this
market, the Company must transition to new process technologies at a faster
pace than before and offer higher performance microprocessors in significantly
greater volumes. The Company has recently experienced significant difficulty
in achieving its microprocessor yield and volume plans on 0.35 micron process
technology, which in turn has adversely affected the Company's results of
operations and liquidity. Independent of these yield problems, the Company has
determined that it must convert from 0.35 micron to 0.25 micron process
technology in Fab 25 as soon as possible in order to meet customer
microprocessor needs for performance and volume, and to compete successfully
against Intel. The Company's process technology transition schedule is
aggressive and entails a high degree of risk. The Company's 0.25 micron
process technology has not been qualified in Fab 25. There can be no assurance
that the Company will execute a successful transition to 0.25 micron process
technology in Fab 25, or that the      

                                      22
<PAGE>
 
Company will achieve the production ramp necessary to meet customer needs for
higher performance AMD-K6 microprocessors in the volumes customers require, or
that the Company will increase revenues sufficient to achieve profitability in
the microprocessor business. The failure to convert Fab 25 to 0.25 micron
process technology on a timely basis could adversely affect unit production
yields and volumes, result in the failure to meet customer demands, cause
customers to cease purchasing AMD-K6 microprocessors, and could impact the
viability of the Company's microprocessor business, any of which would have a
material adverse effect on the Company.
 
  The Company's production and sales plans for the AMD-K6 microprocessors are
subject to other risks and uncertainties, including: whether the Company can
successfully fabricate higher performance AMD-K6 processors in planned volume
mixes; whether it can significantly improve production yields on wafers still
being processed on 0.35 micron process technology; the effects of Intel new
product introductions, marketing strategies and pricing; the continued
development of worldwide market acceptance for the AMD-K6 processor and
systems based on it; whether the Company will have the financial and other
resources necessary to continue to invest in the microprocessor business,
including leading-edge wafer fabrication equipment and advanced process
technologies; the possibility that products newly introduced by the Company
may be found to be defective; possible adverse market conditions in the
personal computer market and consequent diminished demand for the Company's
processors; and unexpected interruptions in the Company's manufacturing
operations.
     
  In view of Intel Corporation's industry dominance and brand strength, AMD
prices the AMD-K6 microprocessor at least 25 percent below the published price
of Intel processors offering comparable performance. Thus, Intel Corporation's
decisions on processor prices can impact and have impacted the average selling
prices of the AMD-K6 microprocessors, and consequently can impact and have
impacted the Company's margins. A failure to significantly improve production
yields and volumes, achieve the production ramp and product performance
improvements necessary to meet customer needs, continue to achieve market
acceptance of the Company's AMD-K6 microprocessors and increase market share,
or to increase AMD-K6 revenues substantially would have a material adverse
effect on the Company.      
 
  AMD is also devoting substantial resources to the development of its
seventh-generation Microsoft Windows compatible microprocessor. The success of
the AMD-K7 and future generation microprocessors depends greatly on the
Company achieving success and increasing market share with the AMD-K6
processor. See also discussions below regarding Intel Dominance and Process
Technology.
 
  Intel Dominance. Intel has long held a dominant position in the market for
microprocessors used in personal computers. Intel Corporation's dominant
market position enables it to set and control x86 microprocessor standards and
thus dictate the type of product the market requires of Intel Corporation's
competitors. In addition, Intel Corporation's financial strength and dominant
position enable it to vary prices on its microprocessors at will and thereby
affect the margins and profitability of its competitors. Intel Corporation's
strength also enables it to exert substantial influence and control over PC
manufacturers through the Intel Inside advertising rebate program and to
invest hundreds of millions of dollars in, and as a result exert influence
over, many other technology companies. The Company expects Intel to continue
to invest heavily in research and development, new manufacturing facilities,
other technology companies and to maintain its dominant position through the
Intel Inside program, through other contractual constraints on customers,
industry suppliers and other third parties, and by controlling industry
standards. As an extension of its dominant microprocessor market share, Intel
also now dominates the PC platform, which has made it difficult for PC
manufacturers to innovate and differentiate their product offerings. The
Company does not have the financial resources to compete with Intel on such a
large scale. As long as Intel remains in this dominant position, its product
introduction schedule, product pricing strategy, customer brand loyalty and
control over industry standards, PC manufacturers and other PC industry
participants, may have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
  As Intel has expanded its dominance over the entirety of the PC system
platform, many PC manufacturers have reduced their system development
expenditures and have begun to purchase microprocessors in conjunction
 
                                      23
<PAGE>
 
with chipsets or in assembled motherboards. The trend has been for PC OEMs to
be increasingly dependent on Intel, less innovative on their own, and more of
a distribution channel for Intel technology. In marketing its microprocessors
to these OEMs and dealers, AMD depends upon companies other than Intel for the
design and manufacture of core-logic chipsets, motherboards, basic
input/output system (BIOS) software and other components. In recent years,
these third-party designers and manufacturers have lost significant market
share to Intel. In addition, these companies are able to produce chipsets,
motherboards, BIOS software and other components to support each new
generation of Intel Corporation's microprocessors only if Intel makes
information about its products available to them in time to address market
opportunities. Delay in the availability of such information makes and will
continue to make it increasingly difficult for them to retain or regain market
share. To compete with Intel in this market in the future, the Company intends
to continue to form closer relationships with third-party designers and
manufacturers of core-logic chipsets, motherboards, BIOS software and other
components. The Company similarly intends to expand its chipset and system
design capabilities, and to offer OEMs licensed system designs incorporating
the Company's processors and companion products. There can be no assurance,
however, that such efforts by the Company will be successful. The Company
expects that, as Intel introduces future generations of microprocessors,
chipsets and motherboards, the design of chipsets, memory and other
semiconductor devices, and higher level board products which support Intel
microprocessors, will become increasingly dependent on the Intel
microprocessor design and may become incompatible with non-Intel processor-
based PC systems.
 
  Intel Corporation's Pentium II is sold only in the form of a "Slot 1"
daughtercard that is not physically or interface protocol compatible with
"Socket 7" motherboards currently used with Intel Pentium and AMD-K6
processors. Thus, Intel is decreasing its support of the Socket 7
infrastructure as it transitions away from its Pentium processors. Because the
AMD-K6 microprocessor is designed to be Socket 7 compatible, and will not work
with motherboards designed for Slot 1 Pentium II processors, the Company
intends to continue to work with third-party designers and manufacturers of
motherboards, chipsets and other products to assure the continued availability
of Socket 7 infrastructure support for the AMD-K6 microprocessor, including
support for enhancements and features the Company plans to add to the
processor. There can be no assurance that Socket 7 infrastructure support for
the AMD-K6 microprocessor will endure over time as Intel moves the market to
its Slot 1 designs. AMD has no plans to develop microprocessors that are bus
interface protocol compatible with the Pentium II processors, because the
Company's patent cross-license agreement with Intel does not extend to AMD
processors that are bus interface protocol compatible with Intel Corporation's
Pentium Pro, Pentium II and subsequent generation processors. Similarly, the
Company's ability to compete with Intel in the market for seventh-generation
and future generation microprocessors will depend not only upon its success in
designing and developing the microprocessors, but also in ensuring either that
the microprocessors can be used in PC platforms designed to support Intel
microprocessors as well as AMD microprocessors or that alternative platforms
are available which are competitive with those used with Intel processors. A
failure for any reason of the designers and producers of motherboards,
chipsets and other system components to support the Company's x86
microprocessor offerings could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
  Dependence on Microsoft and Compatibility Certifications. The Company's
ability to innovate beyond the x86 instruction set controlled by Intel depends
on support from Microsoft in its operating systems. There can be no assurance
that Microsoft will provide support in its operating systems for x86
instructions innovated by the Company and designed into its processors but not
used by Intel in its processors. This uncertainty may cause independent
software providers to forego designing their software applications to take
advantage of AMD innovations, which would adversely affect the Company's
ability to market its processors. In addition, AMD has obtained Windows,
Windows 95 and Windows NT certifications from Microsoft and other appropriate
certifications from recognized testing organizations for its K86
microprocessors. A failure to maintain certifications from Microsoft would
prevent the Company from describing and labeling its K86 microprocessors as
Microsoft Windows compatible. This could substantially impair the Company's
ability to market the products and could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.
 
  Fluctuations in PC Market. Since most of the Company's microprocessor
products are used in personal computers and related peripherals, the Company's
future growth is closely tied to the performance of the PC
 
                                      24
<PAGE>
 
industry. The Company could be materially and adversely affected by industry-
wide fluctuations in the PC marketplace in the future. For example, economic
conditions in Asia could lead to reduced worldwide demand for PCs and the
Company's processors.
     
  Possible Rights of Others. Prior to its acquisition by AMD, NexGen granted
limited manufacturing rights regarding certain of its current and future
microprocessors, including the Nx586(TM) and Nx686(TM), to other companies.
The Company does not intend to produce any NexGen products. The Company
believes that its AMD-K6 microprocessors are AMD products and not NexGen
products because, among other things, the technology acquired in the NexGen
merger was significantly modified using the Company's design, verification and
manufacturing technologies. No NexGen licensee or other party has asserted any
rights with respect to the AMD-K6; however, there can be no assurance that
another company will not seek to establish rights with respect to the
microprocessors. If another company were deemed to have rights to produce the
Company's AMD-K6 microprocessors for its own use or for sale to third parties,
such production could reduce the potential market for microprocessor products
produced by AMD, the profit margin achievable with respect to such products,
or both.    
 
 Flash Memory Products
     
  Importance of Flash Memory Device Business; Increasing Competition. The
market for Flash memory devices continues to experience increased competition
as additional manufacturers introduce competitive products and industry-wide
production capacity increases. The Company expects that the marketplace for
Flash memory devices will continue to be increasingly competitive. A
substantial portion of the Company's revenues is derived from sales of Flash
memory devices, and the Company expects that this will continue to be the case
for the foreseeable future. During 1996 and 1997, the Company experienced
declines in the selling prices of Flash memory devices. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its market share in Flash
memory devices or that price declines may not accelerate as the market
develops and as more competitors emerge. A decline in the Company's Flash
memory device business or declines in the gross margin percentage in this
business could have a material adverse effect on the Company.     
 
 Manufacturing
 
  Capacity. The Company's manufacturing facilities have been underutilized
from time to time as a result of reduced demand for certain of the Company's
products. The Company's operations related to microprocessors have been
particularly affected by this situation. Any future underutilization of the
Company's manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect on the
Company. The Company is increasing its manufacturing capacity by making
significant capital investments in Fab 25 and in Dresden Fab 30. In addition,
the building construction of FASL II, a second Flash memory device
manufacturing facility, is complete and equipment installation is in progress.
The Company is also building a new test and assembly facility in Suzhou,
China. There can be no assurance that the industry projections for future
growth upon which the Company is basing its strategy of increasing its
manufacturing capacity will prove to be accurate. If demand for the Company's
products does not increase, underutilization of the Company's manufacturing
facilities will likely occur and could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.
     
  In contrast to the above, there also have been situations in the past in
which the Company's manufacturing facilities were inadequate to enable the
Company to meet demand for certain of its products. Any inability of AMD to
generate sufficient manufacturing capacities to meet demand, either in its own
facilities or through foundry or similar arrangements with others, could have
a material adverse effect on the Company.     
    
  Process Technology. In order to remain competitive, the Company must make
continuing substantial investments in improving its process technologies. In
particular, the Company has made and continues to make significant research
and development investments in the technologies and equipment used to
fabricate its microprocessor products and its Flash memory devices. Portions
of these investments might not be recoverable if the Company fails to
successfully ramp production in Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology, if
the Company's microprocessors fail to continue to gain market acceptance or if
the market for its      
 
                                      25
<PAGE>
 
Flash memory products should significantly deteriorate. This could have a
material adverse effect on the Company. In addition, any inability of the
Company to remain competitive with respect to process technology could have a
material adverse effect on the Company. For example, the Company's ability to
generate sufficient revenue to achieve profitability in the microprocessor
business in the near future and the Company's success in competing with Intel,
and producing higher performance AMD-K6 microprocessors in volumes sufficient
to increase market share depends on the timely development and qualification
of 0.25 micron process technology in Fab 25. There can be no assurance that
the Company will be able to commit Fab 25 production to a qualified 0.25
micron process technology in order to fabricate product in sufficient volume
to generate revenue necessary to offset investments in Fab 25 and meet the
anticipated needs and demands of its customers. Likewise, the Company is
making a substantial investment in Dresden Fab 30. The business plan for
Dresden Fab 30 calls for the successful development and installation of 0.18
micron process technology and copper interconnect technology in order to
manufacture the AMD-K7 microprocessor beginning in 1999. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to develop or obtain the leading edge
process technologies that will be required in Dresden Fab 30 to fabricate the
AMD-K7 microprocessor successfully.
 
  Manufacturing Interruptions and Yields. Any substantial interruption with
respect to any of the Company's manufacturing operations, either as a result
of a labor dispute, equipment failure or other cause, could have a material
adverse effect on the Company. For example, the Company's recent results have
been negatively affected by disappointing AMD-K6 microprocessor yields. The
Company may in the future be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in
manufacturing yields. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a complex
process. Normal manufacturing risks include errors and interruptions in the
fabrication process and defects in raw materials, as well as other risks, all
of which can affect yields. Additional manufacturing risks incurred in ramping
up new fabrication areas and/or new manufacturing processes include errors and
interruptions in the fabrication process, equipment performance, process
controls as well as other risks, all of which can affect yields.
     
  Product Incompatibility. There can be no assurance that the Company's products
will be compatible with all industry-standard software and hardware. Any
inability of the Company's customers to achieve such compatibility or
compatibility with other software or hardware after the Company's products are
shipped in volume could have a material adverse effect on the Company. There
can be no assurance that AMD will be successful in correcting any such
compatibility problems that are discovered or that such corrections will be
acceptable to customers or made in a timely manner. In addition, the mere
announcement of an incompatibility problem relating to the Company's products
could have a material adverse effect on the Company.     
 
  Product Defects. One or more of the Company's products may possibly be found
to be defective after AMD has already shipped such products in volume,
requiring a product replacement, recall, or a software fix which would cure
such defect but impede performance. Product returns could impose substantial
costs on AMD and have a material adverse effect on the Company.
     
  Essential Manufacturing Materials. Certain raw materials used by the Company
in the manufacture of its products are available from a limited number of
suppliers. For example, several types of the integrated circuit packages
purchased by AMD, as well as by the majority of other companies in the
semiconductor industry, are principally supplied by a few foreign companies.
Shortages could occur in various essential materials due to interruption of
supply or increased demand in the industry. If AMD were unable to procure
certain of such materials, it would be required to reduce its manufacturing
operations which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.     
 
  International Manufacturing and Foundries. Nearly all product assembly and
final testing of the Company's products are performed at the Company's
manufacturing facilities in Penang, Malaysia; Bangkok, Thailand; and
Singapore; or by subcontractors in Asia. AMD has a 50-year land lease in
Suzhou, China, to be used for the construction and operation of an additional
assembly and test facility. The Company also depends on foreign foundry
suppliers and joint ventures for the manufacture of a portion of its finished
silicon wafers.
 
                                      26
<PAGE>
 
Foreign manufacturing and construction of foreign facilities entails political
and economic risks, including political instability, expropriation, currency
controls and fluctuations, changes in freight and interest rates, and loss or
modification of exemptions for taxes and tariffs. For example, if AMD were
unable to assemble and test its products abroad, or if air transportation
between the United States and the Company's overseas facilities were
disrupted, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
OTHER RISK FACTORS
 
  Debt Restrictions. The Credit Agreement and the Indenture for the Senior
Secured Notes contain significant covenants that limit the Company's and its
subsidiaries' ability to engage in various transactions and require
satisfaction of specified financial performance criteria. In addition, the
occurrence of certain events (including, without limitation, failure to comply
with the foregoing covenants, material inaccuracies of representations and
warranties, certain defaults under or acceleration of other indebtedness and
events of bankruptcy or insolvency) would, in certain cases after notice and
grace periods, constitute events of default permitting acceleration of
indebtedness. The limitations imposed by the Credit Agreement and the
Indenture are substantial, and failure to comply with such limitations could
have a material adverse effect on the Company.
 
  In addition, the agreements entered into by AMD Saxony in connection with
the Dresden Fab 30 loan substantially prohibit the transfer of assets from AMD
Saxony to the Company, which will prevent the Company from using current or
future assets of AMD Saxony other than to satisfy obligations of AMD Saxony.
 
  Programmable Logic Software Risks. Historically, the Company's programmable
logic subsidiary, Vantis, has depended on third parties to develop and
maintain software "fitters" that allow electrical circuit designs to be
implemented using Vantis' complex programmable logic devices. Currently,
Vantis has contracted with MINC, Inc. (MINC), a vendor of complex programmable
logic device software development tools, to develop and maintain software
fitters for Vantis' products. If MINC were to stop developing and maintaining
software fitters for Vantis' products, or if the software developed by MINC
was subject to delays, errors or "bugs," and Vantis was not able to internally
develop and maintain such software fitters, then Vantis would need to find
another vendor for such services. No assurance can be given that Vantis would
be able to locate additional software development tool vendors with the
available capacity and technology necessary for the development and
maintenance of software fitter tools, or, if an additional vendor or vendors
were identified, that Vantis would be able to enter into contracts with such
vendors on terms acceptable to Vantis. Any interruption in the MINC services,
or Vantis' inability to find an acceptable alternative vendor for software
services in a timely manner, could have a material adverse effect on Vantis.
 
  Vantis recently initiated efforts to manage and control the development and
maintenance of software fitters for Vantis' products internally. Undertaking
significant software development projects is a new effort for Vantis and is
subject to many risks, including risks of delays, errors and "bugs," and
customer resistance to change. If Vantis' internally-developed software is not
available as scheduled or fails to gain market acceptance, Vantis would need
to contract on acceptable terms with vendors having the available capacity and
technology to develop and maintain such software. No assurance can be given
that Vantis' efforts to internally develop and maintain the software needed to
sell and support its products will be successful. Any inability of Vantis to
successfully develop and maintain software internally in a cost-effective
manner could have a material adverse effect on Vantis.
 
  Vantis' Dependence on Effective Deployment and Management of Newly-Created
FAE Staff. Vantis' major competitors each have a well established network of
field application engineers (FAEs). In comparison, Vantis has only recently
created its own network of FAEs in order to support its products more
effectively and to enhance customer satisfaction with those products. FAEs
service larger customer accounts by consulting with customers on specific
product issues and providing feedback to Vantis as to customer needs. The
future success of Vantis may be affected by its ability to deploy and manage
such FAEs and to continue to attract and retain qualified technical personnel
to fill these positions. Currently, availability of such qualified technical
personnel is limited, and competition among companies for experienced FAEs is
intense. During strong business cycles,
 
                                      27
<PAGE>
 
Vantis expects to experience difficulty in filling its needs for FAEs. No
assurance can be given that Vantis will be able to effectively deploy or
manage its new network of FAEs, and the failure to do so could delay or limit
customer acceptance of Vantis products and otherwise have a material adverse
effect on Vantis.
 
  Recent Introduction of Vantis' FPGA Products. In January of 1998, Vantis
introduced its first field programmable gate array (FPGA) products, which it
intends to sell under the VF1 name beginning in the second half of 1998. The
market for FPGAs is highly competitive. The design, marketing and sale of FPGA
products is subject to many risks, including risks of delays, errors, and
customer resistance to change. Vantis does not anticipate significant sales of
the VF1 family of products until 1999 at the earliest, and no assurance can be
given that its VF1 FPGA products will be available as scheduled or will gain
market acceptance. Inadequate forecasts of customer demand, delays in
responding to technological advances or to limitations of the VF1 FPGA
products, and delays in commencing volume shipments of the VF1 FPGA products
each could have a material adverse effect on Vantis. Failure to compete
successfully in this highly competitive FPGA market would restrict Vantis'
ability to offer high performance products across all major segments of the
PLD market and could have a material adverse effect on Vantis.
 
  Technological Change and Industry Standards. The market for the Company's
products is generally characterized by rapid technological developments,
evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements, frequent new
product introductions and enhancements, short product life cycles and severe
price competition. Currently accepted industry standards may change. The
Company's success depends substantially upon its ability, on a cost-effective
and timely basis, to continue to enhance its existing products and to develop
and introduce new products that take advantage of technological advances and
adhere to evolving industry standards. An unexpected change in one or more of
the technologies related to its products, in market demand for products based
on a particular technology or of accepted industry standards could have a
material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that AMD
will be able to develop new products in a timely and satisfactory manner to
address new industry standards and technological changes, or to respond to new
product announcements by others, or that any such new products will achieve
market acceptance.
 
  Competition. The IC industry is intensely competitive and, historically, has
experienced rapid technological advances in product and system technologies.
After a product is introduced, prices normally decrease over time as
production efficiency and competition increase, and as a successive generation
of products is developed and introduced for sale. Technological advances in
the industry result in frequent product introductions, regular price
reductions, short product life cycles and increased product capabilities that
may result in significant performance improvements. Competition in the sale of
ICs is based on performance, product quality and reliability, price, adherence
to industry standards, software and hardware compatibility, marketing and
distribution capability, brand recognition, financial strength and ability to
deliver in large volumes on a timely basis.
     
  Fluctuations in Operating Results. The Company's operating results are
subject to substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations due to a variety of
factors, including the effects of competition with Intel in the microprocessor
industry, competitive pricing pressures, anticipated decreases in unit average
selling prices of the Company's products, production capacity levels and
fluctuations in manufacturing yields, availability and cost of products from
the Company's suppliers, the gain or loss of significant customers, new
product introductions by AMD or its competitors, changes in the mix of
products produced and sold and in the mix of sales by distribution channels,
market acceptance of new or enhanced versions of the Company's products,
seasonal customer demand due to vacation and holiday schedules (for example,
decreased demand in Europe during the summer), the timing of significant
orders and the timing and extent of product development costs. In addition,
operating results could be adversely affected by general economic and other
conditions causing a downturn in the market for semiconductor devices, or
otherwise affecting the timing of customer orders or causing order
cancellations or rescheduling. The Company's customers may change delivery
schedules or cancel orders without significant penalty. Many of the factors
listed above are outside of the Company's control. These factors are difficult
to forecast, and these or other factors could materially adversely affect the
Company's quarterly or annual operating results.     
 
                                      28
<PAGE>
 
  Order Revision and Cancellation Policies. AMD manufactures and markets
standard lines of products. Sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase
orders for current delivery, or agreements covering purchases over a period of
time, which are frequently subject to revision and cancellation without
penalty. As a result, AMD must commit resources to the production of products
without having received advance purchase commitments from customers. Any
inability to sell products to which it had devoted significant resources could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. Furthermore, the failure to
successfully ramp production to 0.25 micron process technology in Fab 25 and
to increase production levels could cause existing demand to abate from
current levels, which would have a material adverse effect on the Company.
Distributors typically maintain an inventory of the Company's products.
Pursuant to the Company's agreements with distributors, in most instances AMD
protects its distributors' inventory of the Company's products against price
reductions, as well as products that are slow moving or have been
discontinued. These agreements, which may be canceled by either party on a
specified notice, generally contain a provision for the return of the
Company's products in the event the agreement with the distributor is
terminated. The market for the Company's products is generally characterized
by, among other things, severe price competition. The price protection and
return rights AMD offers to its distributors could materially adversely affect
the Company if there is an unexpected significant decline in the price of the
Company's products.
 
  Key Personnel. The Company's future success depends upon the continued
service of numerous key engineering, manufacturing, sales and executive
personnel. There can be no assurance that AMD will be able to continue to
attract and retain qualified personnel necessary for the development and
manufacture of its products. Loss of the service of, or failure to recruit,
key engineering design personnel could be significantly detrimental to the
Company's product development programs or otherwise have a material adverse
effect on the Company.
     
  Intellectual Property Rights; Potential Litigation. There can be no 
assurance that the Company will be able to protect its technology or other 
intellectual property adequately through patents, copyrights, trade secrets, 
trademarks and other measures or that competitors will not be able to
develop similar technology independently. There can be no assurance that any
patent applications that the Company may file will be issued or that foreign
intellectual property laws will protect the Company's intellectual property
rights. There can be no assurance that any patent licensed by or issued to the
Company will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that the rights
granted thereunder will provide competitive advantages to the Company.
Furthermore, there can be no assurance that others will not independently
develop similar products, duplicate the Company's products or design around
the Company's patents and other rights.     
 
  From time to time, AMD has been notified that it may be infringing
intellectual property rights of others. If any such claims are asserted
against the Company, the Company may seek to obtain a license under the third
party's intellectual property rights. AMD could decide, in the alternative, to
resort to litigation to challenge such claims. Such challenges could be
extremely expensive and time-consuming and could materially adversely affect
the Company. No assurance can be given that all necessary licenses can be
obtained on satisfactory terms, or that litigation may always be avoided or
successfully concluded.
 
  Environmental Regulations. The failure to comply with present or future
governmental regulations related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or
disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in the
manufacturing process could result in fines being imposed on the Company,
suspension of production, alteration of the Company's manufacturing processes
or cessation of operations. Such regulations could require the Company to
acquire expensive remediation equipment or to incur other expenses to comply
with environmental regulations. Any failure by the Company to control the use,
disposal or storage of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous
substances could subject the Company to future liabilities and could have a
material adverse effect on the Company.
     
  International Sales. AMD derives a substantial portion of its revenues from
its sales subsidiaries located in Europe and Asia Pacific. The Company's
international sales operations entail political and economic risks,     
 
                                      29
<PAGE>
 
    
including expropriation, currency controls, exchange rate fluctuations,
changes in freight rates and changes in rates for taxes and tariffs.     
     
  Domestic and International Economic Conditions. The Company's business is
subject to general economic conditions, both in the United States and abroad. A
significant decline in economic conditions in any significant geographic area
could have a material adverse effect on the Company. For example, there is
currently an economic crisis in Asia, which has led to weak demand for the
Company's products in certain Asian economies - notably Korea and Japan. The
Company anticipates that the Asian economic crisis may continue to affect
adversely the Company's results of operations, and the further decline of the
economic condition in Asia could in the future affect demand for microprocessors
and other integrated circuits, which could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's sales and operating results.     
 
  Volatility of Stock Price; Ability to Access Capital. Based on the trading
history of its stock, AMD believes factors such as quarterly fluctuations in
the Company's financial results, announcements of new products and/or pricing
by AMD or its competitors, the pace of new product manufacturing ramps,
production yields of key products and general conditions in the semiconductor
industry have caused and are likely to continue to cause the market price of
AMD common stock to fluctuate substantially. In addition, an actual or
anticipated shortfall in revenue, gross margins or earnings from securities
analysts' expectations could have an immediate effect on the trading price of
AMD common stock in any given period. Technology company stocks in general
have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been
unrelated to the operating performance of the companies. This market
volatility may adversely affect the market price of the Company's common stock
and consequently limit the Company's ability to raise capital or to make
acquisitions. The Company's current business plan envisions substantial cash
outlays requiring external capital financing. There can be no assurances that
capital and/or long-term financing will be available on terms favorable to the
Company or in sufficient amounts to enable the Company to implement its
current plan.
 
  Earthquake Danger. The Company's corporate headquarters, a portion of its
manufacturing facilities, assembly and research and development activities and
certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake
fault lines. The Company could be materially adversely affected in the event
of a major earthquake.
 
  Impact of Year 2000. The "Year 2000 Issue" is the result of computer
programs being written using two digits rather than four to define the
applicable year. If the Company's computer programs with date-sensitive
functions are not Year 2000 compliant, they may recognize a date using "00" as
the year 1900 rather than the year 2000. This could result in a system failure
or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including, among other
things, a temporary inability to process transactions, send invoices, or
engage in similar normal business activities.
     
  The Company will be required to modify or replace significant portions of
its software so that its computer systems will function properly with respect
to dates in the year 2000 and thereafter. If required modifications to
existing software and conversions to new software are not made, or are not
completed timely, the Year 2000 Issue could have a material impact on the
operations of the Company. The Company will use both internal and external
resources to reprogram or replace and test the software for Year 2000
modifications.      

  The Company has a plan to formally communicate with all of its significant
suppliers and/or subcontractors to determine the extent to which the Company's
interface systems are vulnerable to those third parties' failure to remediate
their own Year 2000 Issues. The Company does not currently have any
information concerning the Year 2000 compliance status of its customers. In
the event that any of the Company's significant customers and suppliers do not
successfully and timely achieve Year 2000 compliance, the Company's business
or operations could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that the
systems of other companies on which the Company's systems rely will be timely
converted and would not have an adverse effect on the Company's systems. The
Company is currently assessing its exposure to contingencies related to the
Year 2000 Issue for the products it has sold; however, it does not expect
these to have a material impact on the operations of the Company.
 
                                      30
<PAGE>
 
  The Company anticipates completing the Year 2000 project by the first
quarter of 1999, which is prior to any anticipated impact on its operating
systems. This date is contingent upon the timeliness and accuracy of software
upgrades from vendors, adequacy and quality of resources available to work on
completion of the project and any other factors. The total expense of the Year
2000 project is estimated at $10 million, which is not material to the
Company's business operations or financial condition. The expenses of the Year
2000 project are being funded through operating cash flows.
 
  The costs of the project and the date on which the Company believes it will
complete the Year 2000 modifications are based on management's best estimates,
which were derived utilizing numerous assumptions of future events, including
the continued availability of certain resources, third-party modification
plans and other factors. There can be no assurance that these estimates will
be achieved and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated.
 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
INTEREST RATE RISK
 
  The Company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates
primarily to the Company's investment portfolio and long-term debt
obligations. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments in its
investment portfolio. The Company places its investments with high credit
quality issuers and, by policy, limits the amount of credit exposure to any
one issuer. As stated in its policy, the Company is averse to principal loss
and ensures the safety and preservation of its invested funds by limiting
default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk.
 
  The Company mitigates default risk by investing in only the highest credit
quality securities and by constantly positioning its portfolio to respond
appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment
issuer or guarantor. The portfolio includes only marketable securities with
active secondary or resale markets to ensure portfolio liquidity.
 
  The Company has no cash flow exposure due to rate changes for its $400
million Senior Secured Notes. It does have cash flow exposure on its $250
million bank term loan due to its variable LIBOR pricing. The Company
primarily enters into debt obligations to support general corporate purposes
including capital expenditures and working capital needs.
 
  From time to time, the Company enters into interest rate swaps primarily to
reduce its interest rate exposure by changing a portion of the Company's
interest rate exposure from floating to fixed rate. There were no interest
rate swaps outstanding at the end of fiscal 1997.
 
                                      31
<PAGE>
 
  The table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related
weighted-average interest rates by year of maturity for the Company's
investment portfolio and debt obligations.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         FAIR
                           1998      1999     2000    2001  2002  THEREAFTER  TOTAL     VALUE
                         --------  --------  -------  ----  ----  ---------- --------  --------
<S>                      <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>   <C>   <C>        <C>       <C>
Assets
Cash Equivalents
 Fixed rate............. $ 37,761       --       --    --    --         --   $ 37,761  $ 37,696
 Average rate...........     5.64%      --       --    --    --         --       5.64%      --
Short-term Investments
 Fixed rate............. $164,538       --       --    --    --         --   $164,538  $165,174
 Average rate...........     5.71%      --       --    --    --         --       5.71%      --
 Variable rate.......... $ 61,200       --       --    --    --         --   $ 61,200  $ 61,200
 Average rate...........     6.04%      --       --    --    --         --       6.04%      --
Long-term Investments
 Equity investments.....      --   $  6,161      --    --    --         --   $  6,161  $  7,428
 Fixed rate.............      --   $  1,997      --    --    --         --   $  1,997  $  2,092
 Average rate...........      --       5.88%     --    --    --         --       5.88%      --
Total Investments
 Securities............. $263,499  $  8,158      --    --    --         --   $271,657  $273,590
 Average rate...........     5.80%     5.88%     --    --    --         --       5.80%      --
Long-term Debt
 Fixed rate............. $  5,926  $  1,370  $ 1,537  $167  $184   $400,872  $410,056  $440,554
 Average rate...........     7.15%     7.18%    7.17% 9.88% 9.88%     10.98%    10.91%      --
 Variable rate.......... $ 31,250  $125,000  $93,750   --    --         --   $250,000  $221,548
 Average rate...........     7.56%     7.56%    7.56%  --    --         --       7.56%      --
</TABLE>
 
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK
 
  From time to time, the Company enters into foreign exchange forward and
option contracts to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations on its net
monetary assets position in its foreign subsidiaries, liabilities for products
purchased from FASL, fixed asset purchase commitments and subordinated loan
obligations to AMD Saxony. The objective of these contracts is to minimize the
impact of foreign currency exchange rate movements on the Company's operating
results and on the cost of capital asset acquisitions. The Company's
accounting policy for these instruments is based on the Company's designation
of such instruments as hedging transactions. The Company does not use
derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The
Company had $49 million (notional amount) of short-term foreign exchange
forward contracts denominated in yen, deutsche mark, lira, French franc, pound
sterling and Dutch guilder. The Company also had $150 million in call options
outstanding to hedge its future loan or equity obligations to AMD Saxony.
Gains and losses related to these instruments at December 28, 1997 were not
material. The Company does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows
resulting from the use of these instruments in the future. There can be no
assurance that these strategies will be effective or that transaction losses
can be minimized or forecasted accurately.
 
                                      32
<PAGE>
 
  The following table provides information about the Company's foreign
exchange forward contracts and purchased call options at December 28, 1997.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           DECEMBER 28, 1997
                                  -----------------------------------------
                                  NOTIONAL         AVERAGE       ESTIMATED
                                   AMOUNT       CONTRACT RATE   FAIR VALUE
                                  ------------- --------------  -----------
                                  IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT CONTRACT RATES
   <S>                            <C>           <C>             <C>
   Foreign Currency Forward
    Exchange Contracts:
   Dutch Guilders................ $      27,861            2.01    $     238
   Japanese Yen..................         9,688          129.41           76
   Italian Lira..................         6,323         1739.00            2
   French Francs.................         2,110            5.94           (1)
   Deutsche Marks................         1,695            1.77          --
   Pound Sterling................           823            1.65           (6)
                                  -------------                    ---------
                                  $      48,500                    $     309
   Purchased Call Options:
   Deutsche Marks................ $     150,000            1.45          369
</TABLE>
 
  The following table presents outstanding option contracts expiring in 1998
and 1999. The Company has no outstanding option contracts expiring later than
1999. All of the Company's foreign currency forward contracts mature within
the next twelve months.
 
                     NOTIONAL AMOUNT BY EXPECTED MATURITY
                  AVERAGE STRIKE PRICE (FOREIGN CURRENCY/USD)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)                                 1998    1999    TOTAL
- ----------------------                                ------- ------- --------
<S>                                                   <C>     <C>     <C>
Option Contracts to Purchase Foreign Currencies for
 US$
Deutsche Marks
  Notional Amount.................................... $75,000 $75,000 $150,000
  Average Contract Rate..............................    1.45    1.45
</TABLE>
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  The Company's consolidated financial statements required by this item are
set forth on pages F-2 through F-27.
 
                                      33
<PAGE>
 
                          SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
                            1997 AND 1996 BY QUARTER
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                          DEC. 28,  SEPT. 28,  JUNE 29,  MAR. 30,  DEC. 29,  SEPT. 29,  JUNE 30,   MAR. 31,
                            1997      1997       1997      1997      1996      1996       1996       1996
                          --------  ---------  --------  --------  --------  ---------  ---------  --------
                                             (THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                       <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>
Net sales...............  $613,171  $596,644   $594,561  $551,999  $496,868  $456,862   $ 455,077  $544,212
Expenses:
 Cost of sales..........   428,856   428,240    372,266   349,076   354,622   337,692     379,779   368,735
 Research and
  development...........   127,031   125,917    110,021   104,908   107,499   105,656      92,768    94,780
 Marketing, general and
  administrative........   102,296   100,915    102,983    94,519    88,292    90,432      83,063   103,011
                          --------  --------   --------  --------  --------  --------   ---------  --------
                           658,183   655,072    585,270   548,503   550,413   533,780     555,610   566,526
                          --------  --------   --------  --------  --------  --------   ---------  --------
Operating income (loss).   (45,012)  (58,428)     9,291     3,496   (53,545)  (76,918)   (100,533)  (22,314)
Interest income and
 other, net.............     6,525     5,532      9,718    13,322     4,079     4,214      23,039    28,059
Interest expense........   (11,757)  (14,151)    (9,958)   (9,410)   (7,601)   (3,443)     (1,812)   (1,981)
                          --------  --------   --------  --------  --------  --------   ---------  --------
Income (loss) before
 income taxes and equity
 in joint venture.......   (50,244)  (67,047)     9,051     7,408   (57,067)  (76,147)    (79,306)    3,764
Provision (benefit) for
 income taxes...........   (29,861)  (30,072)     2,630     2,148   (22,826)  (30,459)    (31,723)      --
                          --------  --------   --------  --------  --------  --------   ---------  --------
Income (loss) before
 equity in joint
 venture................   (20,383)  (36,975)     6,421     5,260   (34,241)  (45,688)    (47,583)    3,764
Equity in net income of
 joint venture..........     8,049     5,300      3,547     7,691    12,998     7,326      12,911    21,563
                          --------  --------   --------  --------  --------  --------   ---------  --------
NET INCOME (LOSS)
 APPLICABLE TO COMMON
 STOCKHOLDERS...........  $(12,334) $(31,675)  $  9,968  $ 12,951  $(21,243) $(38,362)  $ (34,672) $ 25,327
                          ========  ========   ========  ========  ========  ========   =========  ========
NET INCOME (LOSS) PER
 COMMON SHARE
 Basic..................  $  (0.09) $  (0.22)  $   0.07  $   0.09  $  (0.15) $  (0.28)  $   (0.26) $   0.19
                          ========  ========   ========  ========  ========  ========   =========  ========
 Diluted................  $  (0.09) $  (0.22)  $   0.07  $   0.09  $  (0.15) $  (0.28)  $   (0.26) $   0.18
                          ========  ========   ========  ========  ========  ========   =========  ========
Shares used in per share
 calculation
 Basic..................   141,889   141,055    140,255   138,616   137,102   135,487     134,687   133,229
                          ========  ========   ========  ========  ========  ========   =========  ========
 Diluted................   141,889   141,055    147,919   146,758   137,102   135,487     134,687   138,399
                          ========  ========   ========  ========  ========  ========   =========  ========
</TABLE>
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 
                                       34
<PAGE>
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
<TABLE>    
<CAPTION>
          NAME                                       POSITION
          ----                                       --------
<S>                      <C>
W. J. Sanders III....... Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Previte......... Director, President and Chief Operating Officer and Member of
                          the Office of the CEO
S. Atiq Raza............ Director, Executive Vice President, Chief Technical Officer and
                          Member of the Office of the CEO
Eugene D. Conner........ Executive Vice President, Operations and Member of the Office of
                          the CEO
Marvin D. Burkett(1).... Senior Vice President, Chief Financial and Administrative
                          Officer and Treasurer
William T. Siegle....... Senior Vice President, Technology Development and Wafer
                          Fabrication Operations and Chief Scientist
Stanley Winvick......... Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Stephen J. Zelencik..... Senior Vice President and Co-Chief Marketing Executive
Rob Herb................ Senior Vice President and Co-Chief Marketing Executive
Thomas M. McCoy......... Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
Dr. Friedrich Baur...... Director
Charles M. Blalack...... Director
Dr. R. Gene Brown....... Director
Joe L. Roby............. Director
Dr. Leonard M.
 Silverman.............. Director
</TABLE>      
    
(1) As of April 3, 1998, Mr. Burkett resigned from the Company and Mr. Previte
assumed the responsibilities of Chief Financial and Administrative Officer and
Treasurer.     
    
  W.J. Sanders III--Mr. Sanders, 61, is Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Sanders co-founded the
Company in 1969. He is also a director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc.,
the parent company of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation. Mr.
Sanders has been a Director since 1969.     
     
  Richard Previte--Mr. Previte, 63, is President, Chief Operating Officer and
Member of the Office of the CEO of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his
election as President in 1990, Mr. Previte served as Executive Vice President
and Chief Operating Officer from 1989 to 1990, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer of the Company from shortly after its founding in 1969 until 1989,
and Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary of the Company from 1986 to
1989. Mr. Previte has been a Director since 1990.     
     
  S. Atiq Raza--Mr. Raza, 49, is Executive Vice President, Chief Technical
Officer and Member of the Office of the CEO of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
Mr. Raza became Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer of AMD
following the acquisition of NexGen, Inc. (NexGen) by the Company on January
17, 1996 and became an Executive Vice President and Member of the Office of
the CEO in 1997. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Raza was the Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary of NexGen and held those
positions since 1991. From September 1988 until January 1991, Mr. Raza served
as Executive Vice President of NexGen, responsible for engineering, marketing
and prototype manufacturing. He was a member of the Board of Directors of
NexGen since August 1989 and was elected Chairman of the Board in May 1994. 
Mr. Raza has been a Director since 1996.     
 
  Eugene D. Conner--Mr. Conner, 54, is Executive Vice President, Operations
and Member of the Office of the CEO of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Conner
joined the Company in 1969. Mr. Conner was elected an executive officer in
1981 and began serving as Executive Vice President, Operations in 1997. Mr.
Conner began serving as a Member of the Office of the CEO in 1997.
          
 
                                      35
<PAGE>

     
  William T. Siegle--Mr. Siegle, 59, is Senior Vice President, Technology
Development and Wafer Fabrication Operations and Chief Scientist of Advanced
Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his appointment as Senior Vice President in 1998,
Mr. Siegle was Group Vice President, Technology Development Group and Chief
Scientist since 1997. Prior to his appointment as Group Vice President, Mr.
Siegle served as Vice President, Integrated Technology Department and Chief
Scientist since 1990.     
 
  Stanley Winvick--Mr. Winvick, 58, is Senior Vice President, Human Resources
of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his appointment as Senior Vice
President in 1991, Mr. Winvick served as Vice President, Human Resources since
1980.
 
  Stephen J. Zelencik--Mr. Zelencik, 63, is Senior Vice President and Chief
Marketing Executive of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and has held his current
position since 1979.
    
  Rob Herb--Mr. Herb, 37, is Senior Vice President and Co-Chief Marketing 
Executive of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and was promoted to his current 
position in March 1998. Prior to his current position, Mr. Herb was Vice 
President and Co-General Manager for the Company's Computation Products Group 
since October 1997. From 1996 to 1997, Mr. Herb served as Vice President, 
Strategic Marketing for the Company's Computation Products Group. Mr. Herb 
served as Director of Marketing for the Company's Personal Computer Products 
Division from 1994 to 1996 and the Embedded Processor Division from 1992 to 
1994. Mr. Herb became Director of Headquarter Sales in 1989 and joined the 
Company in 1983.     

  Thomas M. McCoy--Mr. McCoy, 47, is Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his appointment as Vice
President in 1995, Mr. McCoy was with the law firm of O'Melveny and Myers
where he had been a partner since 1985.
     
  Dr. Friedrich Baur--Dr. Baur, 70, has been President and Managing Partner of
MST Beteiligungs und Unternehmensberatungs GmbH, a German consulting firm,
since 1990. Beginning in 1953, Dr. Baur held a variety of positions of
increasing responsibility with Siemens AG, retiring in 1982 as Executive Vice
President and a Managing Director. He also represented Siemens AG on the Board
of Directors of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. from 1978 until 1982. From 1982
to 1990, Dr. Baur was Chairman of the Board of Zahnradfabrik Friedrichshafen
AG. Mr. Baur has been a Director since 1994 and previously from 1978 until 
1982.     
     
  Charles M. Blalack--Mr. Blalack, 71, is Chairman of the Board and Chief
Executive Officer of Blalack and Company, an investment banking firm and a
member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD). From
1970 until 1991, Mr. Blalack was Chief Executive Officer of Blalack-Loop,
Inc., also an investment banking firm and member of the NASD. Prior to 1970,
he was founder, chairman and chief executive officer of BW & Associates, an
investment banking firm and member of the New York Stock Exchange. Mr. Blalack
was a member of the Board of Directors of Monolithic Memories, Inc. until it
was acquired by the Company in 1987. Mr. Blalack has been a Director since 
1989.     
     
  Dr. R. Gene Brown--Dr. Brown, 65, is a private investor and financial and
management consultant. Dr. Brown is also a non-employee Managing Director of
Putnam, Hayes & Bartlett, Inc., an economic and management consulting firm.
From 1961 to 1968, Dr. Brown was a full-time professor in the graduate schools
of business at Harvard University, and then Stanford University. From 1968 to
1974, Dr. Brown was Vice President of Corporate Development for Syntex
Corporation, and from 1974 to 1976, President of Berkeley BioEngineering. Mr. 
Brown has been a Director since 1969.     
     
  Joe L. Roby--Mr. Roby, 58, is the Chief Executive Officer, President and a
director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc. (DLJ), a diversified financial
services company and the parent company of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Securities Corporation. Mr. Roby has been a member of the Board of Directors
of DLJ since 1989. He was appointed President of DLJ in February 1996 and
Chief Executive Officer in February 1998. Mr. Roby served as the Chief
Operating Officer of DLJ from November 1995 until February 1998. Previously,
Mr. Roby was the Chairman of the Banking Group of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette
Securities Corporation, a position he had held since 1989. In addition, Mr.
Roby is a member of the Board of Directors of Sybron International
Corporation. Mr. Roby has been a Director since 1991.     
     
  Dr. Leonard M. Silverman--Dr. Silverman, 58, is Dean of the School of
Engineering of the University of Southern California, and has held that
position since 1984. He was elected to the National Academy of Engineering in
1988, and is a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
Dr. Silverman served on the Board of Directors of Tandon Corporation from 1988
to 1993. Dr. Silverman is also a member of the Board of Directors of Diodes,
Inc. and Netter Digital Entertainment, Inc. Mr. Silverman has been a Director 
since 1994.     
 
  There is no family relationship between any directors or executive officers
of the Company.
 
                                      36
<PAGE>
 
KEY EMPLOYEES
 
<TABLE>    
<CAPTION>
          NAME                                         POSITION
          ----                                         --------
<S>                      <C>
Donald M. Brettner...... Group Vice President, Manufacturing Services Group
Gary O. Heerssen........ Group Vice President and Co-General Manager, Wafer Fabrication Group
Lawrence C. Hollatz..... Vice President Computation Products Group
Walid Maghribi.......... Group Vice President, Memory Group
Daryl Ostrander......... Group Vice President and Co-General Manager, Wafer Fabrication Group
Terryll R. Smith(1)..... Group Vice President, Sales and Marketing
</TABLE>     
    
(1) As of March 10, 1998, Mr. Smith resigned from the Company.      
    
  Donald M. Brettner--Mr. Brettner, 61, is Group Vice President, Manufacturing
Services Group of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his appointment as
Group Vice President in 1996, Mr. Brettner served as Vice President of
Manufacturing Services Group since joining the Company in 1982. Prior to joining
the Company, Mr. Brettner was Chief Operating Officer at NBK Corporation and
Vice President of Manufacturing Services at Fairchild Semiconductor.     
    
  Gary O. Heerssen--Mr. Heerssen, 51, is Group Vice President and Co-General
Manager, Wafer Fabrication Group of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Mr. Heerssen
joined the Company in 1986 as the Vice President and Group Executive for Wafer
Fabrication. He became Group Vice President and Co-General Manager in 1996.
Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Heerssen worked for Fairchild Semiconductor
and spent 15 years with Texas Instruments in a variety of engineering and
operations management positions.    
    
  Lawrence C. Hollatz--Mr. Hollatz, 56, is Group Vice President Computation 
Products Group of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and was promoted to his current
position in March 1998. Prior to his appointment as Group Vice President, Mr. 
Hollatz served as Vice President, Personal Computer Products Division since 
1995. Mr. Hollatz joined the Company in 1991 as Vice President, Embedded 
Products Division.      
     
  Walid Maghribi--Mr. Maghribi, 45, is Group Vice President, Memory Group of
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his appointment as Group Vice President in
1997, Mr. Maghribi was the Vice President of Non-Volatile Division since 1992.
From 1991 to 1992, Mr. Maghribi served as Director of Product and Test
Engineering. Mr. Maghribi joined the Company in 1986. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Maghribi worked for Seeq Technology and National Semiconductor.
     
     
  Daryl Ostrander--Mr. Ostrander, 49, is Group Vice President and Co-General
Manager, Wafer Fabrication Group of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Prior to his
appointment as Group Vice President in 1998, Mr. Ostrander served as Vice
President, Austin Wafer Fabrication since 1993. From 1985 to 1990, Mr. Ostrander
served as Director of Fab 15 and since 1990, Director of Fab 10 and Fab 15. Mr.
Ostrander joined the Company in 1981.    
          
 
SECTION 16(A) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE
 
  Under Section 16(a) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
the Company's directors, executive officers, and any persons holding more than
ten percent of the Company's common stock are required to report to the
Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange their
initial ownership of the Company's stock and any subsequent changes in that
ownership. The Company believes that during fiscal year 1997, its officers,
directors and holders of more than 10 percent of the Company's common stock
filed all Section 16(a) reports on a timely basis. In making this statement,
the Company has relied upon the written representations of its directors and
officers.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION
 
  In 1997, directors who were not employees of the Company individually
received an annual fee of $25,000, a fee of $1,500 for attendance at each
regular or special meeting of the Board, and a fee of $1,000 for attendance at
each meeting of each committee (other than the Nominating Committee) on which
they served. In addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee receives an
annual fee of $20,000 for service in that capacity, and the
 
                                      37
<PAGE>
 
Chairman of the Compensation Committee receives an annual fee of $4,000 for
service in that capacity. No additional amounts are paid for special
assignments. The Company also reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by directors performing services for the Company, and, on occasion,
travel expenses of their spouses.
 
  Pursuant to a nondiscretionary formula set forth in the 1996 Stock Incentive
Plan, non-employee directors also currently receive stock options covering
15,000 shares on their initial election to the Board (the First Option), and
automatically receive supplemental options covering 5,000 shares on each
subsequent re-election (the Annual Option). The First Option vests in
increments of 6,000, 4,500, 3,000 and 1,500 shares on July 15 of the first,
second, third and fourth calendar years following election. Each Annual Option
vests in increments of 1,667, 1,667, and 1,666 shares each on July 15 of the
second, third and fourth calendar years following re-election. Each such
option is granted with an exercise price at fair market value on the date of
grant. These options expire on the earlier of ten years plus one day from the
grant date or twelve months following termination of a director's service on
the Board.
 
  Any non-employee director may elect to defer receipt of all or a portion of
his annual fees and meeting fees, but not less than $5,000. Deferred amounts
plus interest are credited to an account for recordkeeping purposes and are
payable in a lump sum cash payment or in installments over a period of years,
as elected by the director. Except in the case of the director's death or
disability, payments commence upon the latest of the director's tenth
anniversary of his first deferral, age 55, or upon retirement from the Board,
but in no event later than age 70. The aggregate amount of retirement payments
equals the director's deferred fees plus the accumulation of interest. In the
event of the director's death, his beneficiary would receive the value of his
account plus, in certain cases, a supplemental death benefit of up to ten
times the average annual amount of his deferred fees. During 1997, Dr. Brown
deferred fees in the amount of $20,000 pursuant to this program. In addition,
in lieu of his annual fee, Dr. Brown received the use of an automobile
provided by the Company, a value taxable to him at $26,053. Dr. Brown also
received family medical and dental insurance coverage from the Company at a
value of $2,385.
 
                                      38
<PAGE>
 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The following table shows for the three fiscal years ended December 28,
1997, the compensation paid by the Company and its subsidiaries to the
Company's Chief Executive Officer and to the four other most highly paid
executive officers whose aggregate salary and bonus compensation exceeded
$100,000.
 
                    SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE (1995-1997)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        ANNUAL COMPENSATION
                              -----------------------------------------------
             (A)              (B)     (C)        (D)                 (E)
                                                                 OTHER ANNUAL
 NAME AND PRINCIPAL POSITION  YEAR   SALARY   BONUS(1)           COMPENSATION
 ---------------------------  ---- ---------- ----------         ------------
<S>                           <C>  <C>        <C>                <C>
W. J. Sanders III.............1997 $1,000,000 $  617,817(4)        $256,928(5)
 Chairman and Chief           1996 $1,038,461 $2,000,000(4)        $217,818(5)
 Executive Officer            1995 $  978,887 $2,026,961(4)        $278,704(5)

Richard Previte...............1997 $  757,477 $    8,068(6)        $      0
 President, Chief Operating   1996 $  709,312 $  558,945(6)        $      0 
  Officer and Member of       1995 $  660,495 $1,358,757(6)        $      0  
  the Office of the CEO                     

S. Atiq Raza..................1997 $  456,731 $    4,473           $      0
 Executive Vice President,    1996 $  306,350 $  330,693(8)        $      0 
  Chief Technical Officer     1995 $        0 $        0           $      0 
  and Member of the Office 
  of the CEO

Eugene D. Conner..............1997 $  436,923 $    4,304           $      0
 Executive Vice President,    1996 $  406,635 $  100,000           $      0 
  Operations and Member of    1995 $  362,789 $  324,718(11)       $      0 
  the Office of the CEO                     

Stephen Zelencik..............1997 $  426,115 $    4,384           $      0
 Senior Vice President,       1996 $  426,676 $        0           $      0
 Chief Marketing Executive    1995 $  403,978 $  451,420(11)       $      0
<CAPTION>
                                      LONG-TERM COMPENSATION AWARDS
                              -----------------------------------------------------
             (A)                 (F)                   (G)               (I)
                              RESTRICTED           SECURITIES
                                STOCK              UNDERLYING         ALL OTHER
 NAME AND PRINCIPAL POSITION    AWARDS          OPTIONS/SARS(/2/) COMPENSATION(/3/)
 ---------------------------  ----------------- ----------------- -----------------
<S>                           <C>               <C>               <C>
W. J. Sanders III............. $      0                     0         $472,812
 Chairman and Chief            $      0             2,500,000         $ 49,454
 Executive Officer             $      0                     0         $ 34,923

Richard Previte............... $      0               100,000         $ 30,843
 President, Chief Operating    $882,296(7)            145,267         $ 38,429 
  Officer and Member of the    $      0               100,000         $ 29,060 
  Office of the CEO                      

S. Atiq Raza.................. $      0                75,000         $ 12,537
 Executive Vice President,     $533,346(9)            250,132         $  7,100 
  Chief Technical Officer      $      0                     0         $      0 
  and Member of the Office 
  of the CEO

Eugene D. Conner.............. $      0                50,000         $ 18,753
 Executive Vice President,     $441,172(10)            72,632         $ 15,975 
  Operations and Member of     $      0                50,000         $ 21,297 
  the Office of the CEO                      

Stephen Zelencik.............. $      0                50,000         $ 29,313
 Senior Vice President,        $441,172(10)            72,632         $ 25,253
 Chief Marketing Executive     $      0                50,000         $ 20,890
</TABLE>
- -------
 (1) Includes cash profit sharing in the following amounts for Messrs.
     Sanders, Previte, Raza, Conner and Zelencik, respectively: for 1997,
     $10,371, $8,068, $4,473, $4,304, and $4,384; for 1995, $69,187, $46,157,
     $0, $25,535, and $28,009. No cash profit sharing was paid for 1996.
 
 (2) No SARs were awarded in 1997, 1996 or 1995.
 
 (3) Includes for 1997 for Mr. Sanders, pursuant to his Agreement, $400,000 in
     deferred retirement compensation and $23,000 as a deferred cost of living
     salary adjustment. Includes, for 1997 for Messrs. Sanders, Previte, Raza,
     Conner and Zelencik, the Company's matching contributions to the
     Company's 401(k) Plan in the amounts of $2,250, $2,250, $2,250, $2,250
     and $2,250, respectively; the Company's matching contributions to the
     Executive Savings Plan (the ESP) in the amounts of $12,600, $0, $0,
     $4,219 and $3,988, respectively; imputed income from the term life
     insurance provided by the Company in the amounts of $8,680, $5,352,
     $1,458, $1,932 and $3,444, respectively; and premiums paid by the Company
     for individual insurance policies in the amount of $26,282, $23,241,
     $8,829, $10,352 and $19,631, respectively. Includes for 1996, the
     premiums paid by the Company for individual life insurance policies as
     set out in footnote 3 to the Summary Compensation Table in the Company's
     Proxy Statement dated March 20, 1997.
 
 (4) No bonus was earned for 1997 or 1996. In 1997, pursuant to the terms of
     Mr. Sanders' employment agreement, $607,446 was paid from the Unpaid
     Contingent Bonus from 1995. No additional carryover amount currently
     exists. For 1996, a bonus amount of $2,000,000 was paid from the Unpaid
     Contingent Bonus carried forward from 1993, 1994 and 1995. For 1995, the
     maximum bonus amount of $1,957,774 was paid, with an Unpaid Contingent
     Bonus amount of $802,766 carried over and paid in 1996 and 1997, because
     Mr. Sanders' bonus for those years did not exceed the maximum amount.
 
 (5) Includes for 1997, 1996, and 1995, $104,178, $104,089, and $98,310,
     respectively, of in-kind compensation in the form of company provided
     vehicles; and $78,176, $62,864, and $123,319, respectively, reflecting
     the cost to AMD of providing physical security services.
 
                                      39
<PAGE>
 
 (6) No bonus was earned for 1997 or 1996. For 1996, a bonus amount of
     $558,945 was paid from the Unpaid Contingent Bonus carried forward from
     1994 and 1995. No additional carryover amount exists. For 1995, the
     maximum bonus amount of $1,312,600 was paid, with an Unpaid Contingent
     Bonus amount of $67,670 carried over and paid in 1996, because Mr.
     Previte's bonus for 1996 did not exceed the maximum amount.
 
 (7) The total number of restricted shares held by Mr. Previte and their
     aggregate value at December 28, 1997 were 84,733 shares valued at
     $1,487,064. The value is based on the closing sales price of AMD common
     stock on December 26, 1997 ($17.56) and is net of consideration paid for
     the stock. The dollar value of the restricted stock appearing in the
     table with respect to 1996 is based on the closing sales price of AMD
     common stock on October 11, 1996 ($16.13), the date of the award, and is
     net of consideration paid for the stock. The 1996 award vests if certain
     stock targets and employment related conditions are met. The stock
     targets for the 1996 award were met in 1997. 27,367 of the restricted
     shares vested in January of 1998. If Mr. Previte is employed on January
     19, 1999, 13,683 of the restricted shares will vest. If Mr. Previte is
     employed on January 19, 2000, 13,683 of the restricted shares will vest.
 
 (8) Includes $30,693 paid in the form of cancellation of indebtedness on a
     note for interest accrued to October 17, 1996.
 
 (9) The total number of restricted shares held by Mr. Raza and their
     aggregate value at December 28, 1997 were 29,868 shares valued at
     $524,183. The value is based on the closing sales price of AMD common
     stock on December 26, 1997 ($17.56) and is net of consideration paid for
     the stock. The dollar value of the restricted stock appearing in the
     table with respect to 1996 is based on the closing sales price of AMD
     common stock on the date of the awards, April 24, 1996 ($18.38) and
     October 11, 1996 ($16.13), and is net of consideration paid for the
     stock. 2,500 of the performance restricted shares awarded in April of
     1996 vested in January of 1997; the performance conditions for the other
     2,500 shares awarded in April of 1996 were not met and the award did not
     vest in January of 1998. The October 1996 award vests if certain stock
     targets and employment related conditions are met. The stock targets for
     the October 1996 award were met in 1997. 13,683 of the restricted shares
     vested in January of 1998. If Mr. Raza is employed on January 19, 1999,
     6,843 of the restricted shares will vest. If Mr. Raza is employed on
     January 19, 2000, 6,842 of the restricted shares will vest.
 
(10) The total number of restricted shares held by the executive and the
     aggregate value at December 28, 1997 were 27,368 shares valued at
     $480,308. The value is based on the closing sales price of AMD common
     stock on December 26, 1997, ($17.56) and is net of consideration paid for
     the stock. The dollar value of the restricted stock appearing in the
     table with respect to 1996 is based on the closing sales price of AMD
     common stock on October 11, 1996 ($16.13), the date of the award, and is
     net of consideration paid for the stock. The 1996 award vests if certain
     stock price targets and employment related conditions are met. The stock
     price targets for the 1996 award were met in 1997. 13,683 of the
     restricted shares vested in January of 1998. If the executive is employed
     on January 19, 1999, 6,843 of the restricted shares will vest. If the
     executive is employed on January 19, 2000, 6,842 of the restricted shares
     will vest.
 
(11) Includes for Messrs. Conner and Zelencik, $6,506 and $6,988,
     respectively, paid as a correction to the long-term portion of the
     bonuses paid under the Executive Bonus Plan for 1995.
 
                                      40
<PAGE>
 
                   OPTION/SAR GRANTS IN THE LAST FISCAL YEAR
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        POTENTIAL REALIZABLE VALUE AT
                                                                        ASSUMED ANNUAL RATES OF STOCK
                                                                        PRICE APPRECIATION FOR OPTION
                                                                                  TERM(2)
                                                                       -------------------------------
          (A)                (B)          (C)        (D)       (E)      (F)      (G)          (H)
                          NUMBER OF    % OF TOTAL
                          SECURITIES  OPTIONS/SARS EXERCISE
                          UNDERLYING   GRANTED TO   PRICE
                         OPTIONS/SARS EMPLOYEES IN   PER    EXPIRATION
          NAME           GRANTED(/1/) FISCAL YEAR   SHARE      DATE     0%        5%          10%
          ----           ------------ ------------ -------- ---------- ------------------ ------------
<S>                      <C>          <C>          <C>      <C>        <C>   <C>          <C>
W. J. Sanders III.......         0           0         N/A        N/A  $   0 $          0 $          0
Richard Previte.........   100,000        3.00%     $37.50   04/23/07  $   0 $  2,358,355 $  5,976,534
S. Atiq Raza............    75,000        2.25%     $37.50   04/23/07  $   0 $  1,768,766 $  4,482,401
Eugene D. Conner........    50,000        1.50%     $37.50   04/23/07  $   0 $  1,179,177 $  2,988,267
Stephen Zelencik........    50,000        1.50%     $37.50   04/23/07  $   0 $  1,179,177 $  2,988,267
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) For all optionees: Each option has a ten-year term. Each option is subject
    to earlier termination upon the optionee's termination of employment,
    death or disability. The exercise price may be paid in cash or in shares.
    Withholding taxes due on exercise may be paid in cash, with previously
    owned shares, or by having shares withheld. Upon an optionees' termination
    of employment, options may be exercised only to the extent exercisable on
    the date of such termination of employment. Upon an optionee's death or
    disability, certain options that vest during the year of death or
    disability may become exercisable. Options may also become fully
    exercisable upon a Change in Control of the Company or in accordance with
    an optionee's management continuity agreement. See the discussion under
    "Chairman's Employment Agreement" and "Change in Control Arrangements." No
    stock appreciation rights (SARs) were granted to the executive officers
    listed in the table during 1997.
(2) The 0 percent, 5 percent and 10 percent assumed rates of annual compound
    stock price appreciation are mandated by rules of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission and do not represent the Company's estimate or
    projection of future prices of the Company's common stock.
 
  AGGREGATED OPTION/SAR EXERCISES IN THE LAST FISCAL YEAR AND FISCAL YEAR-END
                               OPTION/SAR VALUES
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          (A)                (B)          (C)                   (D)                           (E)
                                                       NUMBER OF SECURITIES          VALUE OF UNEXERCISED
                           NUMBER                     UNDERLYING UNEXERCISED             IN-THE-MONEY
                          OF SHARES                  OPTIONS/SARS AT 12/31/97    OPTIONS/SARS AT 12/31/97(1)
                         ACQUIRED ON     VALUE     ----------------------------- -----------------------------
          NAME            EXERCISE   REALIZED(1)   (EXERCISABLE) (UNEXERCISABLE) (EXERCISABLE) (UNEXERCISABLE)
          ----           ----------- ------------- ------------- --------------- ------------- ---------------
<S>                      <C>         <C>           <C>           <C>             <C>           <C>
W. J. Sanders III.......   500,000    $15,855,280    1,775,000      1,425,000     $5,300,750     $4,004,250
Richard Previte.........         0    $         0      445,550        245,267     $  534,974     $  794,436
S. Atiq Raza............   179,000    $ 5,998,796       22,000        274,132     $        0     $  547,192
Eugene D. Conner........    30,000    $   888,900      379,264        122,632     $1,996,720     $  397,192
Stephen Zelencik........         0    $         0      223,125        122,632     $  266,085     $  397,192
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Value for these purposes is based solely on the difference between market
    value of underlying shares on the applicable date (i.e., date of exercise
    or fiscal year-end) and the exercise price of options.
 
                                      41
<PAGE>
 
CHAIRMAN'S EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT
 
  In 1996, the Company entered into an amended and restated employment
agreement with Mr. Sanders, the term of which is September 1, 1996 through
December 31, 2003 (the Agreement). The Agreement provides for annual base
compensation to Mr. Sanders of no less than $1,000,000 through 2001, $500,000
in 2002 and $350,000 in 2003. Base compensation for periods prior to 2003 will
be adjusted for cost of living increases. Cost of living adjustments for
periods prior to 2002 will be deferred (with interest) until a deduction for
federal income tax purposes will be allowed for their payment or March 31,
2004, if earlier.
 
  Incentive compensation takes the form of an annual incentive bonus and stock
options. The annual incentive bonus equals 0.6 percent of the adjusted
operating profits of the Company for each respective fiscal year through 2001
in excess of twenty percent (20 percent) of adjusted operating profits for the
immediately preceding fiscal year. Under the Agreement, the annual bonus
payment may not exceed $5,000,000. Any excess amount of an annual incentive
bonus over $5,000,000 (the Unpaid Contingent Bonus) will be added to the bonus
determined for each specified future period (subject to the $5,000,000 limit
in each of those years). "Adjusted operating profits" for these purposes
constitute the Company's operating income as reported on the Company's
financial statements, adjusted for any pretax gain or loss from certain joint
ventures and increased by any expenses accrued for profit sharing plan
contributions and Executive Bonus Plan bonuses. Mr. Sanders is also eligible
to receive a discretionary bonus, in an amount determined by the Compensation
Committee of the Board, based on the Committee's assessment of his
performance.
 
  In 1996, Mr. Sanders received an option grant for 2,500,000 shares under the
Agreement. The Compensation Committee expects that no further stock option
awards will be granted to Mr. Sanders over the term of the Agreement, except
in unusual circumstances. Options for 1,250,000 shares are performance- and
time-based. The performance element of the options provides for a scheduled
accelerated vesting should the Company's average stock price attain or exceed
certain milestones for a rolling three month period. The milestone stock
prices are $26.00, $31.00, $37.50, $45.00 and $54.00 per share for 1997
through 2001, respectively. If the highest milestone applicable to a year is
met, options for 250,000 shares applicable to that year will vest. (Achieving
lower stock price milestones results in the acceleration of lesser percentages
of the stock.) Performance-accelerated vesting will occur early if the
performance milestones for a later year are attained in an earlier year.
 
  If the performance-based options do not vest on an accelerated basis, they
will vest on a time-based schedule provided that Mr. Sanders is employed on
the applicable vesting date. They vest at the rate of 0 percent in 1997 and
1998, 10 percent (125,000 shares) on November 15, 1999, 15 percent (187,500)
on November 15, 2000, 20 percent (250,000 shares) on November 15, 2001, 20
percent (250,000 shares) on November 15, 2002 and 35 percent (437,500 shares)
on November 15, 2003, if Mr. Sanders is employed on those dates. Options to
purchase the remaining 1,250,000 shares vest on a time-based schedule at the
rate of 325,000 shares per year on November 15, 1997 and 1998, and 200,000
shares per year on November 15, 1999, 2000 and 2001, if Mr. Sanders is
employed on the applicable vesting date. Vested 1996 options may be exercised
after termination of employment no later than: five years after retirement as
Chief Executive Officer; three years after death or disability; one year after
a voluntary resignation of employment other than for defined reasons; thirty
days after a termination by the Company "for cause"; and, with respect to any
other termination of employment, two years after such termination in the case
of options that vested prior to termination of employment and one year after
the later of termination of service or the vesting date in the case of options
that vest only upon or following termination of employment. All of the 1996
options will expire on September 29, 2006, if not earlier exercised or
terminated.
 
  If the Company terminates Mr. Sanders' employment other than "for cause" or
constructively terminates Mr. Sanders' employment (including re-assigning him
to lesser duties, reducing or limiting his compensation or benefits, removing
him from his responsibilities other than for good cause, requiring him to
relocate or transfer his principal place of residence, or not electing or
retaining him as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company), the
Company is obligated to pay Mr. Sanders his annual base salary through the
later to occur of December 31, 2002 or one year from the date of termination
of employment. In such circumstances, the Company is obligated to pay Mr.
Sanders' incentive compensation for the fiscal year during which such
 
                                      42
<PAGE>
 
termination occurs and for the following fiscal year, plus the amount of any
Unpaid Contingent Bonus then remaining unpaid. In addition, all time-based
options will vest and performance-accelerated vesting options may vest for the
year of termination or constructive termination and for the year following
termination, if the performance milestones are attained by the Company within
such periods.
 
  Under the Agreement, the Company is obligated to guarantee the repayment of
any loan (including interest) obtained by Mr. Sanders for the purpose of
exercising options or warrants to purchase stock of the Company up to the
lesser of: (a) the exercise price of the options plus taxes paid by Mr.
Sanders by reason of the exercise, or (b) three and one-half million dollars
($3,500,000). The Company's obligation to guarantee such loans continues for a
period of two years after the applicable event. If Mr. Sanders enters into
loan agreements for any other reason, the Company is obligated to guarantee
repayment of such loans up to $3,500,000 for a period ending 180 days after
termination of service.
 
  Mr. Sanders is also entitled to receive certain benefits upon his disability
(as that term is defined in the Agreement) and upon his death while employed
by the Company. Mr. Sanders is also entitled to receive such other benefits of
employment with the Company as are generally available to members of the
Company's management. For ten years following any termination, disability,
termination without cause or such other event, Mr. Sanders will receive health
and welfare benefits comparable to those he was receiving and reimbursements
for all income taxes due on the receipt of such benefits.
 
  In the event that Mr. Sanders terminates his employment following a change
in control, Mr. Sanders will receive the greater of the salary payable for the
remaining term of the Agreement or three times base salary, bonus payments
equal to the average of the two highest annual bonuses paid during the last
five calendar years immediately prior to the change of control (plus, as soon
as can be determined, any excess over such amount of the sum of the bonuses
which would otherwise have been payable to Mr. Sanders for the year in which
the termination occurred and the following year), vesting of all time-based
options and vesting of time-based performance-accelerated options if the
performance milestones are satisfied on the basis of the acquisition price or
such options otherwise would have vested in the year of such change in
control. Mr. Sanders will also be entitled to an additional payment necessary
to reimburse him for any federal excise tax imposed on him by reason of his
receipt of payments under his employment agreement or otherwise, so that he
will be placed in the same after-tax position as he would have been in had no
such tax been imposed.
 
  If Mr. Sanders' employment is terminated by reason of his disability or
death, he or his estate is entitled to his full base salary under the
Agreement through 2001, the incentive compensation for the fiscal year in
which such termination occurred and for the following fiscal year, the amount
of any Unpaid Contingent Bonus then remaining unpaid and, in the case of
death, an additional year's salary. Any time-based options Mr. Sanders has
been granted that would otherwise vest within two years following termination
will vest, and all time-based performance-accelerated options which otherwise
would have vested prior to the end of the fiscal year following the death or
disability will vest if the performance milestones are met as described above.
In addition, his beneficiaries will be entitled to receive that portion of the
death benefit payable under a $1,000,000 face amount policy which exceeds the
aggregate premiums paid by the Company on that policy.
 
  Pursuant to the Agreement, the Company will accrue an additional $400,000
per year in deferred retirement compensation for five years, payable to Mr.
Sanders only if he is Chief Executive Officer on September 12, 2001. Accrued
amounts will be credited with interest at the rate of 9 percent per annum. The
payment of $2,000,000 plus interest will be made to Mr. Sanders following his
termination in a manner that ensures that the retirement payments will be
deductible under Section 162(m) of the Code. If Mr. Sanders terminates his
employment by reason of a change of control or because of a constructive
termination or the Company terminates Mr. Sanders' employment (other than "for
cause"), all retirement deferrals will immediately accelerate and will be
payable following termination in a manner that ensures that the retirement
payments will be deductible under Section 162(m). Upon death or disability
before December 31, 2001, a prorated amount will be payable to Mr. Sanders or
his estate following his death or disability.
 
                                      43
<PAGE>
 
CHANGE IN CONTROL ARRANGEMENTS
 
  Management Continuity Agreements. The Company has entered into management
continuity agreements with each of its executive officers named in the Summary
Compensation Table, designed to ensure their continued services in the event
of a Change in Control. Except for Mr. Sanders' management continuity
agreement, all the agreements provide that benefits are payable only if the
executive officer's employment is terminated by the Company (including a
constructive discharge) within two years following a Change in Control. For
purposes of the agreements, a Change in Control includes any change of a
nature which would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of
Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934. A Change in Control is conclusively presumed to have occurred on (1)
acquisition by any person (other than the Company or any employee benefit plan
of the Company) of beneficial ownership of more than 20 percent of the
combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; (2) a
change of the majority of the Board of Directors during any two consecutive
years, unless certain conditions of Board approval are met; or (3) certain
members of the Board determine within one year after an event that such event
constitutes a Change in Control.
 
  All of the management continuity agreements provide that, in the event of a
Change in Control, the Company will reimburse each executive officer who has
signed a management continuity agreement for any federal excise tax payable as
a result of benefits received from the Company. Other than Mr. Sanders'
agreement, the agreements provide that, if within two years after a Change in
Control the executive officer's employment is terminated by the Company or the
executive officer is constructively discharged, the executive officer will
receive: (1) a severance benefit equal to three times the sum of his rate of
base compensation plus the average of his two highest bonuses in the last five
years; (2) payment of his accrued bonus; (3) twelve months' continuation of
other incidental benefits; and (4) full and immediate vesting of all unvested
stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock awards.
 
  Mr. Sanders' management continuity agreement provides that, except for
awards under the Agreement, all stock options and stock appreciation rights
that he holds will become fully vested on the occurrence of a Change in
Control and the restrictions on any shares of restricted stock of the Company
which he may hold will lapse as of such date. Mr. Sanders' management
continuity agreement does not apply to amounts payable to or awards under the
Agreement, and is superseded by the Agreement with respect to such amounts or
awards.
 
  Vesting of Stock Options, Limited Stock Appreciation Rights and Restricted
Stock. Except with respect to options and awards under Mr. Sanders' Agreement,
all options and associated limited stock appreciation rights (LSARs) granted
to officers of the Company shall become exercisable upon the occurrence of any
change in the beneficial ownership of any quantity of shares of common stock
of the Company (where the purpose for the acquisition of such beneficial
ownership is other than passive investment), that would effect a Change in
Control of the Company of a nature that would be required to be reported in
response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, other than a change that has been approved in
advance by the Company's Board of Directors. A Change in Control shall be
conclusively deemed to have occurred if any person (other than the Company,
any employee benefit plan, trustee or custodian therefor) is or becomes the
beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company
representing more than 20 percent of the combined voting power of the
Company's then outstanding securities. Under the Company's 1980 and 1986 stock
appreciation rights plans, outstanding LSARs may be exercised for cash during
a thirty-day period following the expiration date of any tender or exchange
offer for the Company's common stock (other than one made by the Company);
provided the offeror acquires shares pursuant to its offer and owns thereafter
more than 25 percent of the outstanding common stock. In addition, all options
granted under the 1982 Stock Option Plan, the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, the
1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc. and the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan become fully
vested on termination of employment within one year following a Change in
Control as defined in that plan. The options will be subject to accelerated
vesting if a change of control occurs (as defined under the terms of the
executive's management continuity agreement) and either the consideration to
be paid to stockholders of the Company for a share of the Company's common
stock is equal to or in excess of the stock price target, which if attained,
would otherwise result in the vesting of the stock, or the closing price of
the
 
                                      44
<PAGE>
 
Company's common stock on the day thirty days before or after the change of
control is equal to or in excess of such stock price target.
 
  Restricted stock awarded under the 1987 Restricted Stock Award Plan, if
provided for in the individual restricted stock award agreement, will be
subject to accelerated vesting in connection with a change in control of the
Company as defined in the particular agreement. Messrs. Sanders' and Previte's
1994 restricted stock award agreements provide that their restricted stock
will vest if more than 20 percent of the outstanding equity or assets of the
Company are acquired by another Company pursuant to merger, sale of
substantially all the assets, tender offer or other business combination,
other than a transaction in which the stockholders of the Company prior to the
transaction retain a majority interest in the surviving Company. Further, as
described above, stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock
held by executive officers who have entered into management continuity
agreements with the Company will vest in accordance with the terms of such
agreements in connection with a Change in Control of the Company as defined in
such agreements. The restricted shares are subject to accelerated vesting if a
change of control occurs (as defined under the terms of the executive's
management continuity agreement) and either (a) consideration paid to
stockholders of the Company for a share of the Company's common stock equals
or exceeds the stock price target, which if attained, would otherwise result
in the vesting of the stock, or (b) the closing price of the Company's common
stock on the day thirty days before or after the change of control is equal to
or in excess of such stock price target.
 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION
 
  The current members of the Compensation Committee through the Company's 1998
Annual Meeting are Mr. Blalack, Dr. Brown and Dr. Silverman. Mr. Sanders is
the sole member of the Employee Stock Committee, which grants stock options
and awards restricted stock to employees who are not also officers. Mr.
Sanders has the authority to make determinations concerning the cash
compensation of executives other than himself, but usually makes such
determinations in consultation with the Compensation Committee.
 
  Mr. Roby is the Chief Executive Officer, President and a director of
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Inc. (DLJ). Over the past twenty years,
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary
of DLJ, has provided investment banking services to the Company. In 1997,
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette Securities Corporation provided services to the
Company and may provide services to the Company during 1998.
 
  Mr. Sanders, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the
Board, became a member of the Board of Directors of DLJ in November 1995. Mr.
Sanders was an advisory director of DLJ from February 1985 to November 1995.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  The table below sets forth certain information regarding the beneficial
ownership of the company's common stock as of February 25, 1998, by each
person or entity known to the Company to be the beneficial owner of more than
five percent (5 percent) of the Company's common stock, by directors, the
nominees recommended by the Nominating Committee and nominated by the Board of
Directors for election as directors at the April 30, 1998 annual meeting of
stockholders, by each of the executive officers listed in the Summary
Compensation Table, and by all directors and executive officers as a group.
Except as otherwise indicated, each person has sole investment and voting
powers with respect to the shares shown as beneficially owned. Ownership
information is based upon information furnished by the respective individuals.
 
                                      45
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        AMOUNT AND NATURE          PERCENT
                                               OF                    OF
       BENEFICIAL OWNER             BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP(1)         CLASS
       ----------------        ----------------------------------- -------
<S>                            <C>                                 <C>
Wellington Management Company            19,846,740(2)              13.91%
 LLP.......................... (shared dispositive power as to all
 75 State Street                shares; shared voting power as to
 Boston, MA 02109                   3,653,385 of such shares)

The Capital Group Companies,             15,709,350(3)              11.01%(4)
 Inc..........................  (sole dispositive power as to all
 333 South Hope Street           shares; sole voting power as to
 Los Angeles, CA 90071              2,690,100 of such shares)

W. J. Sanders III.............              1,988,247(5)            1.36%
Dr. Friedrich Baur............                  1,000(6)              *
Charles M. Blalack............                 23,000(7)              *
Dr. R. Gene Brown.............                 40,224(8)              *
Richard Previte...............                610,425(9)              *
S. Atiq Raza..................                 72,759(10)             *
Joe L. Roby...................                 33,800(11)             *
Dr. Leonard M. Silverman......                 11,800(12)             *
Eugene D. Conner..............                418,852(13)             *
Stephen Zelencik..............                256,527(14)             *
All directors and executive
 officers as a group (13
 persons).....................              4,214,348(15)           2.88%
</TABLE>
- --------
*Less than one percent (1%)
 
 (1) Some of the individuals may share voting power with regard to the shares
     listed herein with their spouses.
 
 (2) This information is based on Amendment No. 5 to the statement on Schedule
     13G filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11,
     1998 by Wellington Management Company LLP (Wellington). The 19,846,740
     shares are owned by a variety of investment advisory clients.
     Vanguard/Windsor Fund, Inc., one of Wellington's clients, P.O. Box 2600,
     Malvern, PA 19355, owns 13,923,300 shares (sole voting power and shared
     dispositive power as to all shares), representing 9.76% of the Company's
     common stock. This information was obtained from Amendment No. 4 to the
     statement on Schedule 13G filed on February 9, 1998 by Vanguard/Windsor
     Fund, Inc. No client of Wellington other than Vanguard/Windsor Fund, Inc.
     owns more than five percent of the Company's common stock.
 
 (3) This information is based on Amendment No. 9 to the joint statement on
     Schedule 13G filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
     February 11, 1998 by The Capital Group Companies, Inc. and Capital
     Research and Management Co., a registered investment advisor and a wholly
     owned subsidiary of The Capital Group Companies, Inc. The number of
     shares shown for The Capital Group Companies, Inc. includes 11,740,250
     shares beneficially owned by Capital Research and Management Co. which
     reports that it has sole dispositive power as to such shares. The Capital
     Group Companies, Inc. is deemed to be the beneficial owner with respect
     to shares held by various institutional accounts over which various
     operating subsidiaries of The Capital Group Companies, Inc., including
     Capital Research and Management Co., exercise investment discretion. The
     principal business office of Capital Research and Management Co. is 333
     South Hope Street, Los Angeles, California 90071.
 
 (4) The aggregate percentage of outstanding shares beneficially owned by The
     Capital Group Companies, Inc. includes 8.23% beneficially owned by
     Capital Research and Management Co.
 
 (5) Includes 1,775,000 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter. Excludes any shares which may be owned by Mr. Sanders' wife,
     as to which Mr. Sanders disclaims beneficial ownership.
 
 (6) Includes 1,000 shares subject to options that are exercisable on February
     25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days thereafter.
 
                                      46
<PAGE>
 
 (7) Includes 21,000 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
 (8) Includes 13,000 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
 (9) Includes 445,550 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
(10) Includes 48,750 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
(11) Includes 21,000 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
(12) Includes 11,800 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
(13) Includes 379,264 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
(14) Includes 223,125 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
(15) Includes 3,596,733 shares subject to options that are exercisable on
     February 25, 1998, or become exercisable within sixty (60) days
     thereafter.
 
                                      47
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  In connection with Mr. S. Atiq Raza's initial and continued employment by
NexGen, NexGen made two loans to him which were assumed by AMD upon its
acquisition of NexGen. The two loans are each in the principal amount of
$50,000, are currently due on October 17, 1998 and bear interest at 7.07
percent and 8.12 percent. The largest amount due under the loans during 1997
was $142,048, and the aggregate amount outstanding under the loans as of
February 25, 1998 was $143,360.
 
  In March of 1997, Mr. Thomas M. McCoy, Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary, borrowed $450,000 from the Company pursuant to a promissory note
bearing interest at 7.5 percent, payable in March 1999, secured by a pledge of
stock and a deed of trust on real property. Mr. McCoy borrowed an additional
$50,000 in April of 1997 with identical terms. The largest amount due under
the loans during 1997 was $529,764, and the aggregate amount outstanding under
the loans as of February 25, 1998 was $505,753.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (A)
 
  1. Financial Statements
 
  The financial statements listed on page F-1 in the Index to Consolidated
Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule covered by Report of
Independent Auditors are set forth on pages F-2 through F-27 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
 
  2. Financial Statement Schedule
 
  The financial statement schedule listed on page F-1 in the Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule covered by
the Report of Independent Auditors is set forth on page S-1 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.
 
  All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is
not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
the schedules, or because the information required is included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto.
 
  3. Exhibits
 
  The exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits are filed as part
of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The
following is a list of such Exhibits:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT
 NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
 -------                         -----------------------
 <C>     <S>
     2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 20, 1995, as amended,
          between the Company and NexGen, Inc., filed as Exhibit 2 to the
          Company's Quarterly Report for the period ended October 1, 1995, and
          as Exhibit 2.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
          January 17, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     2.2 Amendment No. 2 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated January 11,
          1996, between Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and NexGen, Inc., filed as
          Exhibit 2.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January
          17, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     3.1 Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3.1 to the
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 2,
          1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     3.2 By-Laws, as amended, filed as Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Amendment
          No. 1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended
          December 31, 1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>
 
 
                                      48
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT
  NUMBER                         DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
 -------                         -----------------------
 <C>      <S>
     4.1  Form of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 11 percent Senior Secured Notes
           due August 1, 2003, filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current
           Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
           reference.
     4.2  Indenture, dated as of August 1, 1996, between Advanced Micro
           Devices, Inc. and United States Trust Company of New York, as
           trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on
           Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     4.3  Intercreditor and Collateral Agent Agreement, dated as of August 1,
           1996, among United States Trust Company of New York, as trustee,
           Bank of America NT&SA, as agent for the banks under the Credit
           Agreement of July 19, 1996, and IBJ Schroder Bank & Trust Company,
           filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
           dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     4.4  Payment, Reimbursement and Indemnity Agreement, dated as of August 1,
           1996, between Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and IBJ Schroder Bank &
           Trust Company, filed as Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Current Report
           on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
           reference.
     4.5  Deed of Trust, Assignment, Security Agreement and Financing
           Statement, dated as of August 1, 1996, among Advanced Micro Devices,
           Inc., as grantor, IBJ Schroder Bank & Trust Company, as grantee, and
           Shelley W. Austin, as trustee, filed as Exhibit 4.5 to the Company's
           Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.
     4.6  Security Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1996, among Advanced Micro
           Devices, Inc. and IBJ Schroder Bank & Trust Company, as agent for
           United States Trust Company of New York, as Trustee, and Bank of
           America NT&SA, as agent for banks, filed as Exhibit 4.6 to the
           Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is
           hereby incorporated by reference.
     4.7  Lease, Option to Purchase and Put Option Agreement, dated as of
           August 1, 1996, between Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., as lessor, and
           AMD Texas Properties, LLC, as lessee, filed as Exhibit 4.7 to the
           Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is
           hereby incorporated by reference.
     4.8  Reciprocal Easement Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1996, between
           Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. and AMD Texas Properties, LLC, filed as
           Exhibit 4.8 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August
           13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     4.9  Sublease Agreement, dated as of August 1, 1996, between Advanced
           Micro Devices, Inc., as sublessee, and AMD Texas Properties, LLC, as
           sublessor, filed as Exhibit 4.9 to the Company's Current Report on
           Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
     4.10 The Company hereby agrees to file on request of the Commission a copy
           of all instruments not otherwise filed with respect to long-term
           debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries for which the total
           amount of securities authorized under such instruments does not
           exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the Company and its
           subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
   *10.1  AMD 1982 Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.2  AMD 1986 Stock Option Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.3  AMD 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to
           the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.4  AMD 1980 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit
           10.4 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>
 
 
                                       49
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>     
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBIT
  NUMBER                         DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
 -------                         -----------------------
 <C>      <S>
   *10.5  AMD 1986 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit
           10.5 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.6  Forms of Stock Option Agreements, filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 29, 1991, are hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.7  Form of Limited Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement, filed as Exhibit
           4.11 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-
           26266), is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.8  AMD 1987 Restricted Stock Award Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit
           10.10 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
           year ended December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.9  Forms of Restricted Stock Agreements, filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 29, 1991, are hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.10 Resolution of Board of Directors on September 9, 1981, regarding
           acceleration of vesting of all outstanding stock options and
           associated limited stock appreciation rights held by officers under
           certain circumstances, filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31,
           1985, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.11 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended,
           filed as Exhibit 10.11 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
           for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated
           by reference.
   *10.12 Employment Agreement dated September 29, 1996, between the Company
           and W. J. Sanders III, filed as Exhibit 10.11(a) to the Company's
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 29,
           1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.13 Management Continuity Agreement between the Company and W. J. Sanders
           III, filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the Company's Annual Report on Form
           10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1991, is hereby
           incorporated by reference.
   *10.14 Bonus Agreement between the Company and Richard Previte, filed as
           Exhibit 10.15 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           fiscal year ended December 29, 1991, is hereby incorporated by
           reference.
   *10.15 Executive Bonus Plan, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 25, 1994, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.16 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan, filed as
           Exhibit 10.14(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
           the period ended June 30, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.17 Form of Bonus Deferral Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.12 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March
           30, 1986, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.18 Form of Executive Deferral Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 31, 1989, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.19 Director Deferral Agreement of R. Gene Brown, filed as Exhibit 10.18
           to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended December 31, 1989, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.20 Intellectual Property Agreements with Intel Corporation, filed as 
           Exhibit 10.21 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           fiscal year ended December 29, 1991, are hereby incorporated by
           reference.
</TABLE>      
 
 
                                       50
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>     
<CAPTION>
   EXHIBIT
   NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
   -------                         -----------------------
 <C>         <S>
   *10.21    Form of Indemnification Agreements with former officers of
              Monolithic Memories, Inc., filed as Exhibit 10.22 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 27, 1987, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.22    Form of Management Continuity Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.25 to
              the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
              ended December 29, 1991, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(a) Joint Venture Agreement between the Company and Fujitsu Limited,
              filed as Exhibit 10.27(a) to the Company's Amendment No. 1 to its
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26,
              1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(b) Technology Cross-License Agreement between the Company and Fujitsu
              Limited, filed as Exhibit 10.27(b) to the Company's Amendment No.
              1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(c) AMD Investment Agreement between the Company and Fujitsu Limited,
              filed as Exhibit 10.27(c) to the Company's Amendment No. 1 to its
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 26,
              1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(d) Fujitsu Investment Agreement between the Company and Fujitsu
              Limited, filed as Exhibit 10.27(d) to the Company's Amendment No.
              1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(e) First Amendment to Fujitsu Investment Agreement dated April 28,
              1995, filed as Exhibit 10.23(e) to the Company's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
    10.23(f) Second Amendment to Fujitsu Investment Agreement, dated February
              27, 1996, filed as Exhibit 10.23 (f) to the Company's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(g) Joint Venture License Agreement between the Company and Fujitsu
              Limited, filed as Exhibit 10.27(e) to the Company's Amendment No.
              1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(h) Joint Development Agreement between the Company and Fujitsu
              Limited, filed as Exhibit 10.27(f) to the Company's Amendment No.
              1 to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.23(i) Fujitsu Joint Development Agreement Amendment, filed as Exhibit
              10.23(g) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              period ended March 31, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.24(a) Credit Agreement, dated as of July 19, 1996, among Advanced Micro
              Devices, Inc., Bank of America NT&SA, as administrative agent and
              lender, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as syndication agent and lender, and
              Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, as documentation agent and
              lender, filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on
              Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.24(b) First Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of August 7, 1996,
              among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Bank of America NT&SA, as
              administrative agent and lender, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as
              syndication agent and lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
              Commerce, as documentation agent and lender, filed as Exhibit
              99.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13,
              1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>      
 
 
                                       51
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>     
<CAPTION>
   EXHIBIT
   NUMBER                         DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
   -------                        -----------------------
 <C>         <S>
    10.24(c) Second Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of September 9,
              1996, among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Bank of America NT&SA,
              as administrative agent and lender, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as
              syndication agent and lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
              Commerce, as documentation agent and lender, filed as Exhibit
              10.24(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              period ended September 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.24(d) Third Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of October 1, 1997,
              among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Bank of America NT & SA, as
              administrative agent and lender, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as
              syndicated agent and lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
              Commerce, as documentation agent and lender, filed as Exhibit
              10.24(d) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              period ended September 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.24(e) Fourth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of January 26,
              1998, among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Bank of America NT &
              SA, as administrative agent and lender, ABN AMRO Bank N.V., as
              syndicated agent and lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
              Commerce, as documentation agent and lender, filed as Exhibit
              10.24(e) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.24(f) Fifth Amendment to Credit Agreement, dated as of February 26,
              1998, among Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., Bank of America NT &
              SA, as administrative agent and lender, ABN AMRO Bank, N.V., as
              syndicated agent and lender, and Canadian Imperial Bank of
              Commerce, as documentation agent and lender, filed as Exhibit
              10.24(f) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.25(a) Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as of August 21, 1995,
              made by the Company in favor of CIBC Inc. (replacing in entirety
              the Amended and Restated Guaranty and the First Amendment
              thereto filed as Exhibits 10.29(a) and 10.29(b), respectively,
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
              ended December 25, 1994) filed as Exhibit 10.29(a) to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              October 1, 1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.25(b) First Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of October 20, 1995 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 21, 1995, made by the Company in
              favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 10.29(d) to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1,
              1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.25(c) Second Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of January 12, 1996 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 21, 1995, as amended, made by the
              Company in favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 10.25(c) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 31, 1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.25(d) Third Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of May 10, 1996 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 21, 1995, as amended, made by the
              Company in favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 10.25(n) to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              September 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.25(e) Fourth Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of June 20, 1996 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 21, 1995, as amended, made by the
              Company in favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 10.25(o) to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
              September 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>      
 
 
                                       52
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>    
<CAPTION>
   EXHIBIT
   NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
   -------                         -----------------------
 <C>         <S>
    10.25(f) Fifth Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of August 1, 1996 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 25, 1995, as amended, made by the
              Company in favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 99.3 to the
              Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 13, 1996, is
              hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.25(g) Sixth Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of February 6, 1998 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 25, 1995, as amended, made by the
              Company in favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 10.25(g) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.25(h) Seventh Amendment to Third Amended and Restated Guaranty, dated as
              of February 27, 1998 (amending the Third Amended and Restated
              Guaranty, dated as of August 25, 1995, as amended, made by the
              Company in favor of CIBC Inc.), filed as Exhibit 10.25(h) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.26(a) Building Lease by and between CIBC Inc. and AMD International
              Sales & Service, Ltd., dated as of September 22, 1992, filed as
              Exhibit 10.28(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the fiscal year ended December 27, 1992, is hereby incorporated
              by reference.
    10.26(b) First Amendment to Building Lease dated December 22, 1992, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.,
              filed as Exhibit 10.28(c) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1992, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
    10.26(c) Second Amendment to Building Lease dated December 17, 1993, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.,
              filed as Exhibit 10.29(e) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
    10.26(d) Third Amendment to Building Lease dated August 21, 1995, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales and Service, Ltd.
              (amending the Building Lease filed as Exhibit 10.29(c) to the
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25,
              1994), filed as Exhibit 10.29(b) to the Company's Quarterly
              Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1, 1995, is
              hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.26(e) Fourth Amendment to Building Lease dated November 10, 1995, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.
              (amending the Building Lease filed as Exhibit 10.29(c) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 24, 1994), filed as Exhibit 10.25(h) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
              1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.26(f) Fifth Amendment to Building Lease dated August 1, 1996 (amending
              the Building Lease dated as of September 22, 1992, by and between
              AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd. and CIBC Inc.), filed as
              Exhibit 99.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
              August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.27(a) Land Lease by and between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales &
              Service, Ltd., dated as of September 22, 1992, filed as Exhibit
              10.28(d) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              fiscal year ended December 27, 1992, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.27(b) First Amendment to Land Lease dated December 22, 1992, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.,
              filed as Exhibit 10.28(e) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 27, 1992, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
    10.27(c) Second Amendment to Land Lease dated December 17, 1993, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.,
              filed as Exhibit 10.29(h) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>     
 
 
                                       53
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>    
<CAPTION>
   EXHIBIT
   NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
   -------                         -----------------------
 <C>         <S>
    10.27(d) Third Amendment to Land Lease dated August 21, 1995, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.
              (amending the Land Lease filed as Exhibit 10.29(f) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 25, 1994), filed as Exhibit 10.29(c) to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 1,
              1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.27(e) Fourth Amendment to Land Lease dated November 10, 1995, by and
              between CIBC Inc. and AMD International Sales & Service, Ltd.
              (amending the Land Lease filed as Exhibit 10.29(f) to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 25, 1994), filed as Exhibit 10.25(m) to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
              1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.27(f) Fifth Amendment to Land Lease dated as of August 1, 1996 (amending
              the Land Lease dated as of September 22, 1992, by and between AMD
              International Sales & Service, Ltd. and CIBC Inc.), filed as
              Exhibit 99.5 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
              August 13, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.28(a) Advanced Micro Devices Executive Savings Plan (Amendment and
              Restatement, effective as of August 1, 1993), filed as Exhibit
              10.30 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
              year ended December 25, 1994, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
   *10.28(b) First Amendment to the Advanced Micro Devices Executive Savings
              Plan (as amended and restated, effective as of August 1, 1993),
              filed as Exhibit 10.28(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
   *10.28(c) Second Amendment to the Advanced Micro Devices Executive Savings
              Plan (as amended and restated, effective as of August 1, 1993),
              filed as Exhibit 10.28(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
   *10.29    Form of Split Dollar Agreement, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.31
              to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
              ended December 25, 1994, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.30    Form of Collateral Security Assignment Agreement, filed as Exhibit
              10.32 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
              year ended December 26, 1993, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
   *10.31    Forms of Stock Option Agreements to the 1992 Stock Incentive Plan,
              filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-8 (No. 33-46577), are hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.32    1992 United Kingdom Share Option Scheme, filed as Exhibit 4.2 to
              the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-46577),
              is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.33    Compaq Computer Company/Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. Agreement,
              filed as Exhibit 10.35 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-
              K for the fiscal year ended December 25, 1994, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
   *10.34    Form of indemnification agreements with current officers and
              directors of the Company, filed as Exhibit 10.38 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 25,
              1994, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.35    Agreement to Preserve Goodwill dated January 15, 1996, between the
              Company and S. Atiq Raza, filed as Exhibit 10.36 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
              1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.36    1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc., as amended, filed as Exhibit
              10.36 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
              year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
  **10.37    Patent Cross-License Agreement dated December 20, 1995, between
              the Company and Intel Corporation, filed as Exhibit 10.38 to the
              Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              December 31, 1995, is hereby incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>     
 
 
                                       54
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   EXHIBIT
   NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
   -------                         -----------------------
 <C>         <S>
    10.38    Contract for Transfer of the Right to the Use of Land between
              Advanced Micro Devices (Suzhou) Limited and China-Singapore
              Suzhou Industrial Park Development Co., Ltd., filed as Exhibit
              10.39 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
              year ended December 31, 1995, is hereby incorporated by
              reference.
   *10.39    NexGen, Inc. 1987 Employee Stock Plan, filed as Exhibit 99.3 to
              Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 33-64911), is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
   *10.40    1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc. (assumed by Advanced Micro
              Devices, Inc.), as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.37 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June
              30, 1996, is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.41    Form of indemnity agreement between NexGen, Inc. and its directors
              and officers, filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the Registration Statement
              of NexGen, Inc. on Form S-1 (No. 33-90750), is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
    10.42    Series E Preferred Stock Purchase Warrant of NexGen, Inc. issued
              to PaineWebber Incorporated, filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the
              Registration Statement of NexGen, Inc. on Form S-1 (No. 33-
              90750), is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.43    Series F Preferred Stock Purchase Warrant of NexGen, Inc., filed
              as Exhibit 10.15 to the Registration Statement of NexGen, Inc. on
              Form S-1 (No. 33-90750), is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.44    Series G Preferred Stock Purchase Warrant of NexGen, Inc., filed
              as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registration Statement of NexGen, Inc. on
              Form S-1 (No. 33-90750), is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.45    Agreement for Purchase of IBM Products between IBM and NexGen,
              Inc. dated June 2, 1994, filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the
              Registration Statement of NexGen, Inc. on Form S-1 (No. 33-
              90750), is hereby incorporated by reference.
   *10.46    Letter Agreement dated as of September, 1988, between NexGen, Inc.
              and S. Atiq Raza, First Promissory Note dated October 17, 1988,
              and Second Promissory Note dated October 17, 1988, as amended,
              filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Registration Statement of NexGen,
              Inc. on Form S-1 (No. 33-90750), are hereby incorporated by
              reference.
    10.47    Series B Preferred Stock Purchase Warrant of NexGen, Inc. issued
              to Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield and Byers IV, as amended, filed as
              Exhibit 10.23 to the Registration Statement of NexGen, Inc. on
              Form S-1 (No. 33-90750), is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.48(a) C-4 Technology Transfer and Licensing Agreement dated June 11,
              1996, between the Company and IBM Corporation, filed as Exhibit
              10.48 to the Company's Amendment No. 1 to its Quarterly Report on
              Form 10-Q/A for the period ended September 29, 1996, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
  **10.48(b) Amendment No. 1 to the C-4 Technology Transfer and Licensing
              Agreement, dated as of February 23, 1997, between the Company and
              International Business Machine Corporation, filed as Exhibit
              10.48(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.49(a) Design and Build Agreement dated November 15, 1996, between AMD
              Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Meissner and Wurst GmbH, filed as
              Exhibit 10.49(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
              the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby incorporated
              by reference.
    10.49(b) Amendment to Design and Build Agreement dated January 16, 1997,
              between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Meissner and Wurst GmbH
              filed as Exhibit 10.49(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1996, is hereby
              incorporated by reference.
</TABLE>
 
 
                                       55
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>    
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT
    NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
    -------                         -----------------------
 <C>           <S>
  **10.50(a-1) Syndicated Loan Agreement with Schedules 1, 2 and 17, dated as
                of March 11, 1997, among AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH,
                Dresdner Bank AG and Dresdner Bank Luxemborg S.A., filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.
 ***10.50(a-2) Supplemental Agreement to the Syndicated Loan Agreement dated
                February 6, 1998, among AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, Dresdner
                Bank AG and Dresdner Bank Luxemborg S.A.
  **10.50(b)   Determination Regarding the Request for a Guarantee by AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(b) to the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
                March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference, filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(b) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
                the fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated
                by reference.
  **10.50(c)   AMD Subsidy Agreement, between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and
                Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit 10.50(c) to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30,
                1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.50(d)   Subsidy Agreement, dated February 12, 1997, between Sachsische
                Aufbaubank and Dresdner Bank AG, with Appendices 1, 2a, 2b, 3
                and 4, filed as Exhibit 10.50(d) to the Company's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is
                hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.50(e)   AMD, Inc. Guaranty, dated as of March 11, 1997, among the
                Company, Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed
                as Exhibit 10.50(e) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby
                incorporated by reference.
    10.50(f-1) Sponsors' Support Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997, among
                the Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG,
                filed as Exhibit 10.50(f) to the Company's Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby
                incorporated by reference.
    10.50(f-2) First Amendment to Sponsors' Support Agreement, dated as of
                February 6, 1998, among the Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and
                Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit 10.50(f-2) to the Company's
                Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December
                28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.50(g-1) Sponsors' Loan Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997, among the
                Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Saxony Manufacturing GmbH,
                filed as Exhibit 10.50(g) to the Company's Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby
                incorporated by reference.
    10.50(g-2) First Amendment to Sponsors' Loan Agreement, dated as of
                February 6, 1998, among the Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(g-2) to the
                Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.50(h)   Sponsors' Subordination Agreement, dated as of March 11, 1997,
                among the Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, AMD Saxony
                Manufacturing GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as Exhibit
                10.50(h) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.
    10.50(i)   Sponsors' Guaranty, dated as of March 11, 1997, among the
                Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG, filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(i) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.
  **10.50(j)   AMD Holding Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 11,
                1997, among the Company and AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(j) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.
</TABLE>     
 
 
                                       56
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>     
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT
    NUMBER                          DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBITS
    -------                         -----------------------
 <C>           <S>
  **10.50(k)   AMD Holding Research, Design and Development Agreement, dated as
                of March 11, 1997, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and the
                Company, filed as Exhibit 10.50(k) to the Company's Quarterly
                Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is
                hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.50(l-1) AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 11,
                1997, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD Saxony
                Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(l) to the Company's
                Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30,
                1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.50(l-2) First Amendment to AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement, dated
                as of February 6, 1998, between AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD
                Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50 (1-2) to the
                Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
  **10.50(m)   AMD Saxonia Research, Design and Development Agreement, dated as
                of March 11, 1997, between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and
                AMD Saxony Holding GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(m) to the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
                March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
    10.50(n)   License Agreement, dated March 11, 1997, among the Company, AMD
                Saxony Holding GmbH and AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as
                Exhibit 10.50(n) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.
    10.50(o)   AMD, Inc. Subordination Agreement, dated March 11, 1997, among
                the Company, AMD Saxony Holding GmbH and Dresdner Bank AG,
                filed as Exhibit 10.50(o) to the Company's Quarterly Report on
                Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 1997, is hereby
                incorporated by reference.
  **10.50(p-1) ISDA Agreement, dated March 11, 1997, between the Company and
                AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit 10.50(p) to the
                Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended
                March 30, 1997, is hereby incorporated by reference.
 ***10.50(p-2) Confirmation to ISDA Agreement, dated February 6, 1998, between
                the Company and AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH, filed as Exhibit
                10.50(p-2) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended December 28, 1997, is hereby incorporated by
                reference.
****21         List of AMD subsidiaries.
    23         Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
****24         Power of Attorney.
****27         Financial Data Schedule.
</TABLE>      
- --------
   * Management contracts and compensatory plans or arrangements required to be
     filed as an Exhibit to comply with Item 14(a)(3).
 
  ** Confidential treatment has been granted as to certain portions of these
     Exhibits.
 
 *** Confidential treatment has been requested as to certain portions of these
     Exhibits.

**** Previously filed. 

  The Company will furnish a copy of any exhibit on request and payment of the
Company's reasonable expenses of furnishing such exhibit.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
  The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of
the Company's fiscal year ended December 28, 1997:
 
    1. Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 7, 1997 reporting under Item
  5--Other Events--third-quarter earnings.
 
    2. Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 30, 1997 reporting under
  Item 5--Other Events--third-quarter loss expected to be larger than
  anticipated.
 
                                      57
<PAGE>
 
     
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
                                          Registrant
 
April 17, 1998
 
                                                 
                                          By:        /s/ Richard Previte
                                             _________________________________
                                                        Richard Previte
                                                  Director, President, Chief
                                             Operating Officer, Chief Financial 
                                                       and Administrative
                                                      Officer and Treasurer
     
 
                                      58
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
                  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
                 COVERED BY THE REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            PAGE
                                                                            ----
<S>                                                                         <C>
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.........................  F-2
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years in the period
 ended December 28, 1997..................................................  F-3
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996....  F-4
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the three years in the
 period ended December 28, 1997...........................................  F-5
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years in the period
 ended December 28, 1997..................................................  F-6
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................................  F-7
Schedule for the three years in the period ended December 28, 1997:
 Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts............................  S-1
</TABLE>
 
  All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is
not present or is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
the schedules, or because the information required is included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto.
 
                                      F-1
<PAGE>
 
               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Advanced
Micro Devices, Inc. as of December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 28, 1997. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14(a)2. These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and schedule based on our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996,
and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 28, 1997, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.
 
                                          /s/ Ernst & Young LLP
 
San Jose, California
January 9, 1998
 
 
                                      F-2
<PAGE>
 
                          ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           1997          1996          1995
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
                                        (THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                    <C>           <C>           <C>
NET SALES............................  $  2,356,375  $  1,953,019  $  2,468,379
Expenses:
  Cost of sales......................     1,578,438     1,440,828     1,417,007
  Research and development...........       467,877       400,703       416,521
  Marketing, general and
   administrative....................       400,713       364,798       412,651
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
                                          2,447,028     2,206,329     2,246,179
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
Operating income (loss)..............       (90,653)     (253,310)      222,200
Interest income and other, net.......        35,097        59,391        32,465
Interest expense.....................       (45,276)      (14,837)       (3,059)
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
Income (loss) before income taxes and
 equity in joint venture.............      (100,832)     (208,756)      251,606
Provision (benefit) for income taxes.       (55,155)      (85,008)       70,206
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
Income (loss) before equity in joint
 venture.............................       (45,677)     (123,748)      181,400
Equity in net income of joint
 venture.............................        24,587        54,798        34,926
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
NET INCOME (LOSS)....................       (21,090)      (68,950)      216,326
Preferred stock dividends............           --            --             10
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
NET INCOME (LOSS) APPLICABLE TO
 COMMON STOCKHOLDERS.................  $    (21,090) $    (68,950) $    216,316
                                       ============  ============  ============
NET INCOME (LOSS) PER COMMON SHARE:
  Basic..............................  $      (0.15) $      (0.51) $       1.69
                                       ============  ============  ============
  Diluted............................  $      (0.15) $      (0.51) $       1.57
                                       ============  ============  ============
Shares used in per share calculation:
  Basic..............................       140,453       135,126       127,680
  Diluted............................       140,453       135,126       137,698
</TABLE>
 
 
                             See accompanying notes
 
                                      F-3
<PAGE>
 
                          ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                    DECEMBER 28, 1997 AND DECEMBER 29, 1996
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1997           1996
                                                  -------------  -------------
                                                  (THOUSANDS EXCEPT SHARE AND
                                                      PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
<S>                                               <C>            <C>
                     ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents...................... $     240,658  $     166,194
  Short-term investments.........................       226,374        220,004
                                                  -------------  -------------
      Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term
       investments...............................       467,032        386,198
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for
   doubtful accounts of $11,221 in 1997 and
   $9,809 in 1996................................       329,111        220,028
  Inventories:
    Raw materials................................        33,375         22,050
    Work-in-process..............................        96,712         83,853
    Finished goods...............................        38,430         48,107
                                                  -------------  -------------
      Total inventories..........................       168,517        154,010
    Deferred income taxes........................       160,583        140,850
    Tax refund receivable........................            52         99,909
    Prepaid expenses and other current assets....        49,972         28,082
                                                  -------------  -------------
      Total current assets.......................     1,175,267      1,029,077
Property, plant and equipment:
  Land...........................................        29,421         32,244
  Buildings and leasehold improvements...........     1,012,680        938,573
  Equipment......................................     2,295,498      1,963,808
  Construction in progress.......................       461,452        392,143
                                                  -------------  -------------
      Total property, plant and equipment........     3,799,051      3,326,768
  Accumulated depreciation and amortization......    (1,808,362)    (1,539,366)
                                                  -------------  -------------
  Property, plant and equipment, net.............     1,990,689      1,787,402
  Investment in joint venture....................       204,031        197,205
  Other assets...................................       145,284        131,599
                                                  -------------  -------------
                                                  $   3,515,271  $   3,145,283
                                                  =============  =============
      LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Notes payable to banks......................... $       6,601  $      14,692
  Accounts payable...............................       359,536        224,139
  Accrued compensation and benefits..............        63,429         66,745
  Accrued liabilities............................       134,656        103,436
  Income tax payable.............................        12,676         51,324
  Deferred income on shipments to distributors...        83,508         95,466
  Current portion of long-term debt and capital
   lease obligations.............................        66,364         27,671
                                                  -------------  -------------
      Total current liabilities..................       726,770        583,473
Deferred income taxes............................        96,269         95,102
Long-term debt and capital lease obligations,
 less current portion............................       662,689        444,830
Commitments and contingencies....................           --             --
Stockholders' equity:
  Capital stock:
    Common stock, par value $0.01; 250,000,000
     shares authorized; 142,123,079 shares issued
     and outstanding in 1997 and 137,580,296 in
     1996........................................         1,428          1,380
  Capital in excess of par value.................     1,018,884        957,226
  Retained earnings..............................     1,066,131      1,087,221
  Unrealized gain on investments.................         2,007          4,820
  Cumulative translation adjustments.............       (58,907)       (28,769)
                                                  -------------  -------------
      Total stockholders' equity.................     2,029,543      2,021,878
                                                  -------------  -------------
<CAPTION>
                                                  $   3,515,271  $   3,145,283
<S>                                               <C>            <C>
                                                  =============  =============
</TABLE>
 
                             See accompanying notes
 
                                      F-4
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         PREFERRED STOCK      COMMON STOCK
                        ------------------  ----------------
                                                              CAPITAL IN              UNREALIZED  CUMULATIVE      TOTAL
                         NUMBER              NUMBER           EXCESS OF    RETAINED     GAIN ON   TRANSLATION STOCKHOLDERS'
                        OF SHARES  AMOUNT   OF SHARES AMOUNT  PAR VALUE    EARNINGS   INVESTMENTS ADJUSTMENTS    EQUITY
                        --------- --------  --------- ------  ----------  ----------  ----------- ----------- -------------
                                                                  (THOUSANDS)
<S>                     <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
DECEMBER 25, 1994......      344  $     34   121,919  $  959  $  871,200  $  916,052    $ 9,109    $    --     $1,797,354
 Changes in
 stockholders' equity
 of NexGen in the six
 months ended June 30,
 1995..................   18,161    93,548   (24,530)    352    (171,994)     23,803        --          --        (54,291)
 Issuance of NexGen
 preferred stock.......    1,376    12,653       --      --          --          --         --          --         12,653
 Conversion of
 preferred stock to
 common stock--NexGen..  (19,537) (106,201)   19,970       2     106,199         --         --          --            --
 Issuance of NexGen
 common stock in
 connection with
 Initial Public
 Offering..............      --        --      4,542     271      65,340         --         --          --         65,611
 NexGen warrants
 exercised.............      --        --      1,178     --          --          --         --          --            --
 Issuance of shares
 for employee stock
 plans.................      --        --      2,283      22      23,518         --         --          --         23,540
 Compensation
 recognized under
 employee stock plans..      --        --        --      --        2,483         --         --          --          2,483
 Conversion of
 preferred stock to
 common stock..........     (344)      (34)    6,853      69      (2,536)        --         --          --         (2,501)
 Reincorporation into
 a Delaware
 Corporation...........      --        --        (33)   (625)        625         --         --          --            --
 Income tax benefits
 realized from
 employee stock option
 exercises.............      --        --        --      --       15,189         --         --          --         15,189
 Preferred stock
 dividends.............      --        --        --      --          --          (10)       --          --            (10)
 Redemption of
 stockholder rights....      --        --        --      --       (1,035)        --         --          --         (1,035)
 Net income............      --        --        --      --          --      216,326        --          --        216,326
 Net change in
 unrealized gain on
 investments...........      --        --        --      --          --          --      27,143         --         27,143
                         -------  --------   -------  ------  ----------  ----------    -------    --------    ----------
DECEMBER 31, 1995......      --        --    132,182   1,050     908,989   1,156,171     36,252         --      2,102,462
 Issuance of shares:
   Employee stock
   plans...............      --        --      3,838     315      27,433         --         --          --         27,748
   Fujitsu Limited.....      --        --      1,000      10      16,525         --         --          --         16,535
 Compensation
 recognized under
 employee stock plans..      --        --        --      --           24         --         --          --             24
 Warrants exercised....      --        --        560       5       2,755         --         --          --          2,760
 Income tax benefits
 realized from
 employee stock option
 exercises.............      --        --        --      --        1,500         --         --          --          1,500
 Net loss..............      --        --        --      --          --      (68,950)       --          --        (68,950)
 Net change in
 unrealized gain on
 investments...........      --        --        --      --          --          --     (31,432)        --        (31,432)
 Net change in
 translation
 adjustment............      --        --        --      --          --          --         --      (28,769)      (28,769)
                         -------  --------   -------  ------  ----------  ----------    -------    --------    ----------
DECEMBER 29, 1996......      --        --    137,580   1,380     957,226   1,087,221      4,820     (28,769)    2,021,878
 Issuance of shares
 for employee stock
 plans.................      --        --      4,113      44      38,013         --         --          --         38,057
 Compensation
 recognized under
 employee stock plans..      --        --        --      --       21,232         --         --          --         21,232
 Warrants exercised....      --        --        430       4       2,413         --         --          --          2,417
 Net loss..............      --        --        --      --          --      (21,090)       --          --        (21,090)
 Net change in
 unrealized gain on
 investments...........      --        --        --      --          --          --      (2,813)        --         (2,813)
 Net change in
 translation
 adjustment............      --        --        --      --          --          --         --      (30,138)      (30,138)
                         -------  --------   -------  ------  ----------  ----------    -------    --------    ----------
DECEMBER 28, 1997......      --   $    --    142,123  $1,428  $1,018,884  $1,066,131    $ 2,007    $(58,907)   $2,029,543
                         =======  ========   =======  ======  ==========  ==========    =======    ========    ==========
</TABLE>
 
See accompanying notes
 
                                      F-5
<PAGE>
 
                          ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    1997       1996      1995
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
                                                          (THOUSANDS)
<S>                                               <C>        <C>       <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss).............................  $ (21,090) $(68,950) $216,326
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to
   net cash provided by operating activities:
   Depreciation and amortization................    394,465   346,774   272,527
   Net loss on disposal of property, plant and
    equipment...................................     19,763    11,953     2,152
   Net gain realized on sale of available-for-
    sale securities.............................     (4,978)  (41,022)   (2,707)
   Compensation recognized under employee stock
    plans.......................................     21,232        24     2,483
   Undistributed income of joint venture........    (24,587)  (54,798)  (34,926)
   Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
     Net (increase) decrease in receivables,
      inventories, prepaid expenses and other
      assets....................................   (184,966)   30,421    12,307
     Payment of litigation settlement...........        --        --    (58,000)
     Net (increase) decrease in deferred income
      taxes.....................................    (18,566)   17,134      (925)
     Increase (decrease) in tax refund
      receivable and income tax payable.........     61,209  (110,058)   11,772
     Net increase (decrease) in payables and
      accrued liabilities.......................    156,333   (42,863)  124,058
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Net cash provided by operating activities.......    398,815    88,615   545,067
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchase of property, plant and equipment.....   (685,100) (485,018) (625,900)
  Proceeds from sale of property, plant and
   equipment....................................     43,596     2,489     4,834
  Purchase of available-for-sale securities.....   (537,147) (633,476) (817,888)
  Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale
   securities...................................    545,478   840,492   756,373
  Purchase of held-to-maturity debt securities..        --        --   (648,012)
  Proceeds from maturities of held-to-maturity
   debt securities..............................        --        --    642,229
  Investment in joint venture...................       (128)      --    (18,019)
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Net cash used in investing activities...........   (633,301) (275,513) (706,383)
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from borrowings......................    283,482   447,877   246,345
  Debt issuance costs...........................    (13,080)  (15,378)      --
  Payments on debt and capital lease
   obligations..................................    (79,791) (252,766) (142,937)
  Proceeds from foreign grants..................     77,865       --        --
  Proceeds from issuance of stock...............     40,474    47,043   101,804
  Expenses for conversion of preferred stock and
   redemption of stockholder rights.............        --        --     (3,536)
  Payments of preferred stock dividends.........        --        --        (10)
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Net cash provided by financing activities.......    308,950   226,776   201,666
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents.......     74,464    39,878    40,350
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year..    166,194   126,316    85,966
                                                  ---------  --------  --------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year........  $ 240,658  $166,194  $126,316
                                                  =========  ========  ========
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow
 information:
  Cash paid (refunded) during the year for:
   Interest (net of amounts capitalized)........  $  34,600  $    --   $  2,541
                                                  =========  ========  ========
   Income taxes.................................  $(100,016) $    375  $ 60,329
                                                  =========  ========  ========
  Non-cash financing activities:
   Equipment capital leases.....................  $  44,770  $  8,705  $ 24,422
                                                  =========  ========  ========
   Conversion of preferred stock to common
    stock.......................................  $     --   $    --   $270,328
                                                  =========  ========  ========
</TABLE>
 
                             See accompanying notes
 
 
                                      F-6
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
          DECEMBER 28, 1997, DECEMBER 29, 1996 AND DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
1. NATURE OF OPERATIONS
 
  AMD (the Company) is a semiconductor manufacturer with manufacturing
facilities in the U.S. and Asia and sales offices throughout the world. The
Company's products include a wide variety of industry-standard integrated
circuits (ICs) which are used in many diverse product applications such as
telecommunications equipment, data and network communications equipment,
consumer electronics, personal computers (PCs) and workstations.
     
  Vantis Corporation (Vantis), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company,
designs, develops and markets programmable logic devices (PLDs). On September
29, 1997, the Company transferred certain of the assets and liabilities of the
PLD division of the Company (excluding bipolar products) to Vantis, at 
historical cost.      
 
2. BUSINESS COMBINATION
 
  On January 17, 1996, the Company acquired NexGen, Inc. (NexGen) in a tax-
free reorganization in which NexGen was merged directly into the Company. At
the date of the merger, the Company reserved approximately 33.6 million total
shares to be exchanged, which represented eight-tenths (0.8) of a share of the
common stock of AMD for each share of the common stock of NexGen outstanding
or subject to an assumed warrant or option. The merger has been accounted for
under the pooling-of-interests method. The Consolidated Financial Statements
have been prepared to give retroactive effect to the merger of NexGen with and
into AMD on January 17, 1996.
 
  Prior to its merger with AMD, NexGen reported on a fiscal year ending June
30. In the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes
thereto, NexGen financial position and operating results for 1995, which were
restated to a December 31, 1995 year-end, have been combined with the
Company's financial position and operating results as of and for the year
ended December 31, 1995.
 
3. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Fiscal Year. The Company uses a 52- to 53-week fiscal year ending on the
last Sunday in December, which resulted in a 52-week year ended December 28,
1997. This compares with a 52-week fiscal year for 1996 and a 53-week fiscal
year for 1995, which ended on December 29 and December 31, respectively.
 
  Principles of Consolidation. The Consolidated Financial Statements include
the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all
significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. Also
included in the financial statements of the Company, under the equity method
of accounting, is the Company's 49.992 percent investment in Fujitsu AMD
Semiconductor Limited (FASL).
 
  Foreign Currency Translation. Translation adjustments resulting from the
process of translating into U.S. dollars the foreign currency financial
statements of the Company's wholly owned foreign subsidiaries for which the
U.S. dollar is the functional currency are included in operations. The
translation adjustments relating to the translation of the Company's German
wholly owned subsidiary in Dresden, in the State of Saxony (Dresden Fab 30),
and the Company's unconsolidated joint venture, for which the local currencies
are the functional currencies, are included in stockholders' equity.
 
  Cash Equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of financial instruments which
are readily convertible to cash and have original maturities of three months
or less at the time of acquisition.
 
  Investments. The Company classifies, at the date of acquisition, its
marketable debt and equity securities into held-to-maturity and available-for-
sale categories in accordance with the provisions of the Statement of
 
                                      F-7
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (SFAS No. 115), "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." Currently, the Company classifies
its securities as available-for-sale which are reported at fair market value
with the related unrealized gains and losses included in retained earnings.
Realized gains and losses and declines in value of securities judged to be
other than temporary are included in interest income and other, net. Interest
and dividends on all securities are included in interest income and other,
net.
 
  Investments with maturities between three and twelve months are considered
short-term investments. Short-term investments consist of money market auction
rate preferred stocks and debt securities such as commercial paper, time
deposits, certificates of deposit, bankers' acceptances and marketable direct
obligations of the United States Treasury.
 
  Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts. From time to time, foreign exchange
forward contracts are used to hedge the Company's net monetary asset positions
in its foreign subsidiaries and the Company's liabilities for products
purchased from FASL. Realized gains and losses from these hedges are included
in operations. Premiums and discounts, if any, are amortized over the life of
the contract and included in operations.
 
  Interest Rate Swaps. From time to time, the Company enters into interest
rate swaps primarily to reduce its interest rate exposure by changing a
portion of the Company's interest rate exposure from a floating rate to a
fixed rate basis. The differential between fixed and floating rates to be paid
or received is accrued and recognized as an adjustment to interest expense.
Accordingly, the related amount receivable from or payable to counterparties
is included in other current assets or accrued liabilities, respectively.
 
  Foreign Currency Option Contracts. From time to time, the Company enters
into option contracts to hedge firm foreign currency transactions. Premiums
related to option contracts are amortized over the life of the contract.
Realized gains on foreign currency option contracts will be included in the
basis of the transaction. Option contracts that would result in losses if
exercised are allowed to expire.
 
  Inventories. Inventories are stated principally at standard cost adjusted to
approximate the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or market (net
realizable value).
 
  Property, Plant and Equipment. Property, plant and equipment is stated at
cost. Depreciation and amortization are provided principally on the straight-
line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets for financial
reporting purposes and on accelerated methods for tax purposes. Estimated
useful lives for financial reporting purposes are as follows: machinery and
equipment 3 to 5 years; buildings up to 26 years; and leasehold improvements
are the shorter of the remaining terms of the leases or the estimated economic
useful lives of the improvements.
 
  Deferred Income on Shipments to Distributors. A portion of sales is made to
distributors under terms allowing certain rights of return and price
protection on unsold merchandise held by the distributors. Pursuant to the
Company's agreements with distributors, in most instances AMD protects its
distributors' inventory of the Company's products against price reductions, as
well as products that are slow moving or have been discontinued. These
agreements, which may be canceled by either party on a specified notice,
generally contain a provision for the return of the Company's products in the
event the agreement with the distributor is terminated. Accordingly,
recognition of sales to distributors and related gross profits are deferred
until the merchandise is resold by the distributors.
 
  Advertising Expenses. The Company accounts for advertising costs as expense
in the period in which they are incurred. Advertising expense for 1997, 1996
and 1995 was approximately $74 million, $44 million and $44 million,
respectively.
 
 
                                      F-8
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share. In February 1997, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 128 (SFAS 128), "Earnings per Share." SFAS 128 supersedes Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 15 (APB 15), "Earnings per Share," and other
related Interpretations and is effective for the periods ending after December
15, 1997. Under SFAS 128, all prior-period earnings per share amounts have
been restated. Basic earnings per share is based upon weighted-average common
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share is computed using the weighted-
average common shares outstanding plus any potentially dilutive securities.
Dilutive securities include stock options, warrants, restricted stock,
convertible debt and convertible preferred stock.
 
  The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
income (loss) per common share:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             1997        1996        1995
                                          ----------- ----------- -----------
                                          (THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
   <S>                                    <C>         <C>         <C>
   Numerator:
    Net income (loss).................... $  (21,090) $  (68,950) $   216,326
    Preferred stock dividends............        --          --           (10)
                                          ----------  ----------  -----------
    Numerator for basic and diluted net
     income (loss) per common share...... $  (21,090) $  (68,950) $   216,316
                                          ----------  ----------  -----------
   Denominator:
    Denominator for basic net income
     (loss) per common share--weighted-
     average shares......................    140,453     135,126      127,680
    Effect of dilutive securities:
     Employee stock options..............        --          --         6,231
     Warrants............................        --          --         2,233
     Convertible preferred stock.........        --          --         1,343
     Other dilutive securities...........        --          --           211
                                          ----------  ----------  -----------
    Dilutive potential common shares.....        --          --        10,018
    Denominator for diluted net income
     (loss) per common share--adjusted
     weighted-average shares and assumed
     conversions.........................    140,453     135,126      137,698
                                          ==========  ==========  ===========
   Basic net income (loss) per common
    share................................ $    (0.15) $    (0.51) $      1.69
                                          ==========  ==========  ===========
   Diluted net income (loss) per common
    share................................ $    (0.15) $    (0.51) $      1.57
                                          ==========  ==========  ===========
</TABLE>
 
  For additional disclosures regarding the warrants, the employee stock
options and the restricted stock, see Notes 7 and 12.
 
  Options, warrants and restricted stock were outstanding during 1997 and
1996, but were not included in the computation of diluted net loss per common
share because the effect in years with a net loss would be antidilutive.
Options to purchase 1,970,000 shares of common stock at a weighted-average
price of $30.18 per share were outstanding during 1995, but were not included
in the computation of diluted net income per common share because the options'
exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares
and, therefore, the effect would be antidilutive.
 
  Employee Stock Plans. The Company accounts for its stock option plans and
its employee stock purchase plan in accordance with provisions of the
Accounting Principles Board's Opinion No. 25 (APB 25), "Accounting For Stock
Issued to Employees." In 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
released the Statement of
 
                                      F-9
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (SFAS 123), "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." SFAS 123 provides an alternative to APB 25 and is effective for
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995. As allowed under SFAS 123, the
Company continues to account for its employee stock plans in accordance with
the provisions of APB 25. See Note 12.
 
  Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results inevitably will differ from those estimates,
and such differences may be material to the financial statements.
     
  Year-End Adjustments. The Company made certain year-end adjustments in 1995,
resulting from changes in estimates related to the Nx586 product which was
developed by NexGen. These adjustments were material to the results of the
fourth quarter in 1995. These adjustments, related to accounts receivable and
inventory, were charged primarily to net sales and cost of sales and reduced
1995 operating income by approximately $52 million. These adjustments had no
impact on the Company's operating results in 1997 or 1996.      
    
  Recently Issued Financial Accounting Standards. In June 1997, the Financial 
Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information 
(SFAS 131), which is effective for years beginning after December 15, 1997. 
SFAS 131 establishes standards for the way that public business enterprises 
report information about operating segments in annual financial statements and
requires that those enterprises report selected information about operating 
segments in interim financial reports. It also establishes standards for 
related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas, and major 
customers. SFAS 131 will first be reflected in the Company's 1998 Annual 
Report. Management has not completed its review of SFAS 131, and accordingly 
has not evaluated the effect on the Company's reported segment.    
 
  Financial Presentation. Certain prior year amounts on the Consolidated
Financial Statements have been reclassified to conform to the 1997
presentation.
 
                                     F-10
<PAGE>
 
                          ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
4. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES
 
  Available-for-sale securities as of December 28, 1997, and December 29, 1996,
were as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   GROSS      GROSS      FAIR
                                                 UNREALIZED UNREALIZED  MARKET
                                          COST     GAINS      LOSSES    VALUE
                                        -------- ---------- ---------- --------
                                                      (THOUSANDS)
<S>                                     <C>      <C>        <C>        <C>
1997
Cash equivalents:
 Commercial paper...................... $ 14,901   $   14     $ --     $ 14,915
 Federal agency notes..................   22,860      --        (79)     22,781
                                        --------   ------     -----    --------
   Total cash equivalents.............. $ 37,761   $   14     $ (79)   $ 37,696
                                        ========   ======     =====    ========
Short-term investments:
 Money market auction rate preferred
  stocks............................... $ 61,200   $  --      $ --     $ 61,200
 Certificates of deposit...............   50,025      345       (10)     50,360
 Treasury notes........................    9,989        9       --        9,998
 Corporate notes.......................   37,862      127        (4)     37,985
 Federal agency notes..................   47,283        4       (70)     47,217
 Commercial paper......................   19,379      235       --       19,614
                                        --------   ------     -----    --------
   Total short-term investments........ $225,738   $  720     $ (84)   $226,374
                                        ========   ======     =====    ========
Long-term investments:
 Equity investments.................... $  6,087   $1,341     $ --     $  7,428
 Treasury notes........................    1,997       95       --        2,092
                                        --------   ------     -----    --------
   Total long-term investments......... $  8,084   $1,436     $ --     $  9,520
                                        ========   ======     =====    ========
1996
Cash equivalents:
 Commercial paper...................... $ 42,699   $  --      $(148)   $ 42,551
 Federal agency notes..................   32,805      --       (107)     32,698
 Other debt securities.................      458      --        --          458
                                        --------   ------     -----    --------
   Total cash equivalents.............. $ 75,962   $  --      $(255)   $ 75,707
                                        ========   ======     =====    ========
Short-term investments:
 Money market auction rate preferred
  stocks............................... $  5,000   $  --      $ --     $  5,000
 Certificates of deposit...............   48,113        7        (8)     48,112
 Treasury notes........................   52,812        8       (76)     52,744
 Corporate notes.......................   18,967      --        (13)     18,954
 Commercial paper......................   94,506      688       --       95,194
                                        --------   ------     -----    --------
   Total short-term investments........ $219,398   $  703     $ (97)   $220,004
                                        ========   ======     =====    ========
Long-term investments:
 Equity investments.................... $ 15,281   $4,467     $ --     $ 19,748
 Treasury notes........................    2,015        2       --        2,017
                                        --------   ------     -----    --------
   Total long-term investments......... $ 17,296   $4,469     $ --     $ 21,765
                                        ========   ======     =====    ========
</TABLE>
 
  The net gain realized on the sale of available-for-sale securities was $5
million, $41 million and $3 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
                                      F-11
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  As of December 28, 1997, the Company did not own any securities classified
as trading.
 
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE-SHEET RISK
 
  As part of the Company's asset and liability management, the Company enters
into various types of transactions that involve financial instruments with
off-balance-sheet risk. These instruments are entered into in order to manage
financial market risk, including interest rate and foreign exchange risk. The
notional values, carrying amounts and fair values are included in the table
below. The estimates of fair value were obtained using prevailing financial
market information as of December 28, 1997. In certain instances where
judgment is required in estimating fair value, price quotes were obtained from
certain of the Company's counterparty financial institutions.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        1997                    1996
                               ----------------------- ------------------------
                               NOTIONAL CARRYING FAIR  NOTIONAL CARRYING  FAIR
                                AMOUNT   AMOUNT  VALUE  AMOUNT   AMOUNT   VALUE
                               -------- -------- ----- -------- --------  -----
                                                 (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                         <C>      <C>      <C>   <C>      <C>       <C>
   Interest rate instruments:
     Swaps.................... $   --     $--    $--   $40,000  $(1,011)  $(437)
   Foreign exchange
    instruments:
     Foreign currency option
      contracts............... 150,000     893    369      --       --      --
     Foreign exchange forward
      contracts...............  48,500      53    309   25,340      138     121
</TABLE>
 
 Foreign Exchange Forward Contracts
 
  The Company enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to buy and sell
currencies as economic hedges of its net monetary asset positions in its
foreign subsidiaries and liabilities for products purchased from FASL. The
hedging transactions in 1997 were denominated in lira, yen, French franc,
deutsche mark, pound sterling and Dutch guilder. The maturities of these
contracts are generally less than six months.
 
 Foreign Currency Option Contracts
 
  In 1997, the Company entered into foreign currency option contracts as a
hedge of firm commitments to make investments in, or subordinated loans to,
Dresden Fab 30. These contracts expire at various dates through 1999.
 
FAIR VALUE OF OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
  The fair value of debt was estimated using discounted cash flow analysis
based on estimated interest rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements.
 
  The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's other
financial instruments are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  1997              1996
                                            ----------------- -----------------
                                            CARRYING   FAIR   CARRYING   FAIR
                                             AMOUNT   VALUE    AMOUNT   VALUE
                                            -------- -------- -------- --------
                                                        (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
   Short-term debt:
     Notes payable......................... $  6,601 $  6,601 $ 14,692 $ 14,692
     Current portion of long-term debt.....   37,176   34,344    3,802    3,802
   Long-term debt (excluding capital
    leases)................................  622,880  627,758  410,068  447,491
</TABLE>
 
 
                                     F-12
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
5. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK
 
  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations
of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents, short-term investments,
trade receivables and financial instruments used in hedging activities.
 
  The Company places its cash equivalents and short-term investments with high
credit quality financial institutions and, by policy, limits the amount of
credit exposure with any one financial institution. Investments in time
deposits and certificates of deposit are acquired from banks having combined
capital, surplus and undistributed profits of not less than $200 million.
Investments in commercial paper and money market auction rate preferred stocks
of industrial firms and financial institutions are rated A1, P1 or better,
investments in tax-exempt securities including municipal notes and bonds are
rated AA, Aa or better, and investments in repurchase agreements must have
securities of the type and quality listed above as collateral.
 
  Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited
because a large number of geographically diverse customers make up the
Company's customer base, thus spreading the trade credit risk. The Company
controls credit risk through credit approvals, credit limits and monitoring
procedures. The Company performs in-depth credit evaluations of all new
customers and requires letters of credit, bank guarantees and advance
payments, if deemed necessary. Bad debt expenses have not been material.
 
  The counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's foreign
currency hedging transactions consist of a number of major, high credit
quality, international financial institutions. The Company does not believe
that there is significant risk of nonperformance by these counterparties
because the Company monitors their credit ratings and limits the financial
exposure and the amount of agreements entered into with any one financial
institution. While the notional amounts of financial instruments are often
used to express the volume of these transactions, the potential accounting
loss on these transactions if all counterparties failed to perform is limited
to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the
contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.
 
6. OTHER RISKS
 
  Financing Requirements. The Company plans to continue to make significant
capital investments, at a significantly higher rate than in previous years.
These investments include those relating to the conversion of Fab 25 to 0.25
micron process technology and the construction and facilitization of Dresden
Fab 30. The Company will be required to raise funds through external financing
in order to continue to make the substantial capital investments required to
convert Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology, as well as for other ongoing
capital investments.
 
  In March 1997, the Company's indirect wholly owned subsidiary, AMD Saxony,
entered into a Loan Agreement (the Dresden Loan Agreement) with a consortium
of banks led by Dresdner Bank AG. In the event the Company is unable to meet
its obligation to make loans to, or equity investments in, AMD Saxony as
required under the Dresden Loan Agreement, AMD Saxony will be unable to
complete Dresden Fab 30 and the Company will be in default under the Dresden
Loan Agreement, the Credit Agreement and the Indenture, which would permit
acceleration of indebtedness, which would have a material adverse effect on
the Company.
 
  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain the funds
necessary to fund its capital investments and any such failure will have a
material adverse effect on the Company.
 
  Products. AMD-K6 microprocessor and Flash memory devices each contributed a
significant portion of the Company's revenues in 1997. The Company's ability
to increase product revenues, and benefit fully from
 
                                     F-13
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
substantial financial investments and commitments it has made and continues to
make related to microprocessors, depends upon the success of the AMD-K6
microprocessor in 1998, future generations of K86 microprocessors in 1999 and
beyond and future generations of Flash memory devices.
 
  Markets. The markets for the Company's products are characterized by rapid
technological developments, evolving industry standards, changes in customer
requirements, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, short
product life cycles and severe price competition. The market for
microprocessors is primarily dependent upon the market for PCs, and the market
for Flash memory devices is primarily dependent upon the market for
communications devices. From time to time, the PC industry has experienced
significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of,
declines in general economic conditions. These downturns have been
characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity and
resultant accelerated erosion of average selling prices. The Company's
business could be materially and adversely affected by industry-wide
fluctuations in the PC marketplace in the future.
 
  Manufacturing Capacity. The Company's manufacturing facilities have been
underutilized from time to time as a result of reduced demand for certain of
the Company's products. The Company's operations related to microprocessors
have been particularly affected by this situation. Any future underutilization
of the Company's manufacturing facilities could have a material adverse effect
on the Company. The Company is increasing its manufacturing capacity by making
significant capital investments in Fab 25 and in Dresden Fab 30. In addition,
the building construction of FASL II, a second Flash memory device
manufacturing facility, is complete and equipment installation is in progress.
The Company is also building a new test and assembly facility in Suzhou,
China. There can be no assurance that the industry projections for future
growth upon which the Company is basing its strategy of increasing its
manufacturing capacity will prove to be accurate. If demand for the Company's
products does not increase, underutilization of the Company's manufacturing
facilities will likely occur and could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.
 
  Process Technology. Manufacturers of integrated circuits constantly seek to
improve the process technologies used to manufacture their products. In order
to remain competitive, the Company must make continuing substantial
investments in improving its process technologies. In particular, the Company
has made and continues to make significant research and development
investments in the technologies and equipment used to fabricate its
microprocessor products and its Flash memory devices. Portions of these
investments might not be recoverable if the Company fails to successfully ramp
production in Fab 25 to 0.25 micron process technology, if the Company's
microprocessors fail to continue to gain market acceptance or if the market
for its Flash memory products should significantly deteriorate. This could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. There can be no assurance that
the Company will be able to commit Fab 25 production to a qualified 0.25
micron process technology in order to fabricate product in sufficient volume
to generate revenue necessary to offset investments in Fab 25 and meet the
anticipated needs and demands of its customers.
 
  Manufacturing Interruptions and Yields. Any substantial interruption with
respect to any of the Company's manufacturing operations, either as a result
of a labor dispute, equipment failure or other cause, could have a material
adverse effect on the Company. For example, the Company's recent results have
been negatively affected by disappointing AMD-K6 microprocessor yields. The
Company may in the future be materially adversely affected by fluctuations in
manufacturing yields. The manufacture of integrated circuits is a complex
process. Normal manufacturing risks include errors and interruptions in the
fabrication process and defects in raw materials, as well as other risks, all
of which can affect yields. Additional manufacturing risks incurred in ramping
up new fabrication areas and/or new manufacturing processes include errors and
interruptions in the fabrication process, equipment performance, process
controls as well as other risks, all of which can affect yields.
 
 
                                     F-14
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Inventories. Given the volatility of the market, the Company makes inventory
provisions for potentially excess and obsolete inventory based on backlog and
forecasted demand. However, such backlog demand is subject to revisions,
cancellations and rescheduling. Actual demand will inevitably differ from such
anticipated demand, and such differences may have a material effect on the
financial statements.
 
  Customers. The Company primarily markets and sells its products to a broad
base of customers comprised of distributors and OEMs of computation and
communication equipment. One of the Company's distributors, Arrow Electronics,
Inc., accounted for approximately 12 percent, 13 percent and 12 percent of
1997, 1996 and 1995 net sales, respectively. No other distributor or OEM
customer accounted for 10 percent or more of net sales in 1997, 1996 or 1995.
 
  International Operations. The Company derives a substantial portion of its
revenues from international sales. However, only a portion of the Company's
international sales were denominated in foreign currencies. Further, the
Company does not have any sales denominated in the local currencies of those
countries which have highly inflationary economies.
 
  Nearly all product assembly and final testing of the Company's products are
performed at the Company's manufacturing facilities in Penang, Malaysia;
Bangkok, Thailand; and Singapore; or by subcontractors in Asia. Wafer
fabrication of certain products is performed at foundries in Asia. FASL wafer
fabrication facilities are located in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan. Foreign
manufacturing entails political and economic risks, including political
instability, expropriation, currency controls and fluctuations, changes in
freight and interest rates, and loss or modification of exemptions for taxes
and tariffs. For example, if AMD were unable to assemble and test its products
abroad, or if air transportation between the United States and the Company's
overseas facilities were disrupted, there could be a material adverse effect
on the Company's operations.
 
7. WARRANTS
 
  On May 24, 1995, the effective date of the initial public offering by
NexGen, all previously issued preferred series warrants were converted into
warrants to purchase common stock. At December 28, 1997, the Company had 4,801
warrants outstanding with an exercise price of $6.25 expiring on August 17,
1998.
 
  For the year ended December 28, 1997, warrants previously issued to purchase
31,939 shares of common stock were exercised on a cashless basis for 27,296
shares of common stock. All warrants are currently exercisable at December 28,
1997.
 
8. INCOME TAXES
 
  Provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     1997      1996      1995
                                                   --------  ---------  -------
                                                          (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                             <C>       <C>        <C>
   Current:
     U.S. Federal................................. $(43,053) $(102,213) $58,683
     U.S. State and Local.........................   (1,959)    (1,026)   1,855
     Foreign National and Local...................    8,423      1,097   10,594
   Deferred:
     U.S. Federal.................................  (12,902)    16,280    1,295
     U.S. State and Local.........................   (7,872)       854   (3,167)
     Foreign National and Local...................    2,208        --       946
                                                   --------  ---------  -------
   Provision (benefit) for income taxes........... $(55,155) $ (85,008) $70,206
                                                   ========  =========  =======
</TABLE>
 
 
                                     F-15
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Tax benefits resulting from the exercise of nonqualified stock options and
the disqualifying disposition of shares acquired under the Company's incentive
stock option and stock purchase plans reduced taxes currently payable as shown
above by approximately $2 million and $15 million in 1996 and 1995,
respectively. Such benefits were credited to capital in excess of par value
when realized. Tax benefits generated in 1997 did not reduce taxes currently
payable.
 
  In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109 (SFAS
109), "Accounting for Income Taxes," deferred income taxes reflect the net tax
effects of tax carryovers and temporary differences between the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company's
deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 28, 1997 and December 29,
1996, are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             1997       1996
                                                           ---------  ---------
                                                               (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                                     <C>        <C>
   Deferred tax assets:
     Net operating loss carryovers........................ $  99,424  $  50,225
     Deferred distributor income..........................    36,898     45,594
     Inventory reserves...................................    30,085     30,145
     Accrued expenses not currently deductible............    26,345     17,297
     Federal and state tax credit carryovers..............    74,535     57,959
     Other................................................    60,927     61,957
                                                           ---------  ---------
       Total deferred tax assets..........................   328,214    263,177
     Less: valuation allowance............................   (44,221)   (22,062)
                                                           ---------  ---------
       Net deferred tax assets............................   283,993    241,115
   Deferred tax liabilities:
     Depreciation.........................................  (175,177)  (154,217)
     Other................................................   (44,502)   (41,150)
                                                           ---------  ---------
       Total deferred tax liabilities.....................  (219,679)  (195,367)
                                                           ---------  ---------
   Net deferred tax assets................................ $  64,314  $  45,748
                                                           =========  =========
</TABLE>
 
  Realization of the Company's net deferred tax assets is dependent on future
taxable income. The Company believes that it is more likely than not that such
assets will be realized, however, ultimate realization could be negatively
impacted by market conditions and other variables not known or anticipated at
this time.
 
  The valuation allowance for deferred tax assets includes $18 million
attributable to stock option deductions, the benefit of which will be credited
to equity when realized.
 
  Pretax income from foreign operations was approximately $10 million in 1997,
$33 million in 1996 and $61 million in 1995.
 
  A portion of the net operating loss carryovers are subject to limitation.
Availability of $21 million of tax effected net operating loss carryovers
generally occurs ratably from 1999 through 2001. The federal and state tax
credit and net operating loss carryovers expire beginning in the year 2003
through 2012.
 
                                     F-16
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  The following is a reconciliation between statutory federal income taxes and
the total provision (benefit) for income taxes:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  1997              1996             1995
                             ---------------   ---------------   -------------
                               TAX     RATE      TAX     RATE      TAX    RATE
                             --------  -----   --------  -----   -------  ----
                                     (THOUSANDS EXCEPT PERCENT)
   <S>                       <C>       <C>     <C>       <C>     <C>      <C>
   Statutory federal income
    tax provision
    (benefit)..............  $(35,291) (35.0)% $(73,065) (35.0)% $88,062  35.0%
   State taxes net of
    federal benefit........    (7,500)  (7.4)      (520)  (0.2)      216   0.1
   Tax exempt Foreign Sales
    Corporation income.....    (1,369)  (1.4)    (2,283)  (1.1)   (6,848) (2.7)
   Foreign income and other
    than U.S. rates........   (10,228) (10.1)    (9,782)  (4.7)  (11,503) (4.6)
   Other...................      (767)  (0.8)       642    0.3       279   0.1
                             --------  -----   --------  -----   -------  ----
                             $(55,155) (54.7)% $(85,008) (40.7)% $70,206  27.9%
                             ========  =====   ========  =====   =======  ====
</TABLE>
 
  No provision has been made for income taxes on approximately $333 million of
cumulative undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries because it
is the Company's intention to permanently invest such earnings. If such
earnings were distributed, additional taxes of approximately $113 million
would accrue.
 
  The Company's assembly and test plant in Thailand is operated under a tax
holiday which expires in 1998. The net impact of this tax holiday was a
decrease in the net loss of approximately $3 million ($0.02 diluted net loss
per common share) in 1997.
 
9. DEBT
 
  Significant elements of revolving lines of credit are:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       1997           1996
                                                   -------------  -------------
                                                   (THOUSANDS EXCEPT PERCENT)
   <S>                                             <C>            <C>
   Committed:
     Three-year secured revolving line of credit.  $     150,000  $     150,000
   Uncommitted:
     Portion of unsecured lines of credit
      available to foreign subsidiaries..........         67,052         84,501
   Amounts outstanding at year-end under lines of
    credit:
     Short-term..................................          6,601         14,692
   Short-term borrowings:
     Average daily borrowings....................         10,795         15,389
     Maximum amount outstanding at any month-end.         13,846         22,971
     Weighted-average interest rate..............           1.75%          2.36%
     Average interest rate on amounts outstanding
      at year-end................................           2.01%          1.47%
</TABLE>
 
  Interest on foreign and short-term domestic borrowings is negotiated at the
time of the borrowing.
 
                                     F-17
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Information with respect to the Company's long-term debt and capital lease
obligations at year-end is:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1997      1996
                                                            --------  --------
                                                               (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                                      <C>       <C>
   11% Senior Secured Notes with interest payable
    semiannually and principal on August 1, 2003........... $400,000  $400,000
   Secured term loan with 7.56% interest payable quarterly
    and principal payable quarterly from October 1998
    through May 2000.......................................  250,000       --
   Promissory notes with principal and 6.88% interest
    payable annually through January 2000, secured by a
    partnership interest...................................    6,577     8,489
   Mortgage with principal and 9.88% interest payable in
    monthly installments through April 2007................    1,781     1,930
   Obligations under capital leases........................   68,997    58,631
   Obligations secured by equipment........................    1,668     3,388
   Other...................................................       30        63
                                                            --------  --------
                                                             729,053   472,501
   Less: current portion...................................  (66,364)  (27,671)
                                                            --------  --------
   Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, less
    current portion........................................ $662,689  $444,830
                                                            ========  ========
</TABLE>
 
  On July 19, 1996, the Company entered into a syndicated bank loan agreement
(the Credit Agreement), which provided for a $400 million term loan and
revolving credit facility which became available concurrently with the sale of
the Senior Secured Notes. The Credit Agreement provided for a $150 million
three-year secured revolving line of credit (which can be extended for one
additional year, subject to approval of the lending banks) and a $250 million
four-year secured term loan, the latter of which the Company used fully in
January 1997. No balances were outstanding under the revolving line of credit
at December 28, 1997 or December 29, 1996.
 
  For each of the next five years and beyond, long-term debt and capital lease
obligations are:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        LONG-TERM DEBT  CAPITAL
                                                       (PRINCIPAL ONLY) LEASES
                                                       ---------------- -------
                                                             (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                                 <C>              <C>
   1998...............................................     $ 37,176     $33,518
   1999...............................................      126,370      19,052
   2000...............................................       95,287      12,783
   2001...............................................          167       6,539
   2002...............................................          184       1,497
   Beyond 2002........................................      400,872         268
                                                           --------     -------
     Total............................................      660,056      73,657
   Less: amount representing interest.................          --       (4,660)
                                                           --------     -------
     Total at present value...........................     $660,056     $68,997
                                                           ========     =======
</TABLE>
 
  Obligations under the lease agreements are collateralized by the assets
leased. Total assets leased were approximately $138 million and $134 million
at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, respectively. Accumulated
amortization of these leased assets was approximately $85 million and $72
million at December 28, 1997 and December 29, 1996, respectively.
 
  The above debt agreements limit the Company's and its subsidiaries' ability
to engage in various transactions and require satisfaction of specified
financial performance criteria. At December 28, 1997, the Company was in
compliance with all restrictive covenants of such debt agreements and all
retained earnings were restricted as to payments of cash dividends on common
stock.
 
                                     F-18
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
10. INTEREST EXPENSE & INTEREST INCOME AND OTHER, NET
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     1997      1996      1995
                                                   --------  --------  --------
                                                          (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                             <C>       <C>       <C>
   Interest expense............................... $ 74,716  $ 32,507  $ 21,102
   Interest capitalized...........................  (29,440)  (17,670)  (18,043)
                                                   --------  --------  --------
                                                   $ 45,276  $ 14,837  $  3,059
                                                   ========  ========  ========
</TABLE>
 
  In 1997, interest expense primarily consisted of interest expense incurred
on the Company's Senior Secured Notes sold in August 1996, interest on the
Company's $250 million four-year secured term loan and interest capitalized
primarily related to the second phase of construction of Fab 25 and Dresden
Fab 30. In 1996, interest expense primarily consisted of interest expense
incurred on the Company's Senior Secured Notes sold in August 1996 and
interest capitalized primarily related to equipment installation in Fab 25. In
1995, interest expense primarily consisted of interest payments on the $150
million four-year term loan the Company entered into on January 5, 1995, and
interest capitalized primarily related to the construction of Fab 25.
 
INTEREST INCOME AND OTHER, NET
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1997    1996    1995
                                                         ------- ------- -------
                                                               (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                                   <C>     <C>     <C>
   Interest income...................................... $28,975 $19,564 $29,518
   Other income, net....................................   6,122  39,827   2,947
                                                         ------- ------- -------
                                                         $35,097 $59,391 $32,465
                                                         ======= ======= =======
</TABLE>
 
  Other income, net primarily consisted of gains resulting from the sales of
equity investments for all years presented. Also included in other income, net
for all years presented is the net loss on the sale of assets.
 
11. FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS
     
  AMD operates in one industry segment and designs, develops, manufactures and
markets standard lines of products. The Company's products include a wide
variety of industry-standard ICs which are used in many diverse product
applications such as telecommunications equipment, data and network
communications equipment, consumer electronics, PCs and workstations.     
 
  Operations outside the United States include both manufacturing and sales.
Manufacturing subsidiaries are located in Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore and
China. Sales subsidiaries are in Europe and Asia Pacific.
 
                                     F-19
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  The following is a summary of operations by entities within geographic areas
for the three years ended December 28, 1997:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              1997        1996        1995
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                     (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>
   Sales to unaffiliated customers:
     North America........................ $1,804,242  $1,418,871  $1,780,240
     Europe...............................    391,587     378,136     491,293
     Asia Pacific.........................    160,546     156,012     196,846
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------
                                           $2,356,375  $1,953,019  $2,468,379
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========
   Transfers between geographic areas
    (eliminated in consolidation):
     North America........................ $1,016,400  $  578,581  $  743,117
     Asia Pacific.........................    386,015     383,684     396,158
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------
                                           $1,402,415  $  962,265  $1,139,275
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========
   Operating income (loss):
     North America........................ $ (105,487) $ (289,324) $  164,549
     Europe...............................    (23,717)     (3,905)     18,922
     Asia Pacific.........................     38,551      39,919      38,729
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------
                                           $  (90,653) $ (253,310) $  222,200
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========
   Identifiable assets:
     North America........................ $2,983,963  $2,644,368  $2,636,675
     Asia Pacific.........................    565,536     514,880     463,530
     Europe...............................    318,801     154,288      85,664
     Eliminations.........................   (353,029)   (168,253)   (107,402)
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------
                                           $3,515,271  $3,145,283  $3,078,467
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========
   U.S. export sales:
     Asia Pacific......................... $  487,751  $  344,050  $  485,625
     Europe...............................    291,773     157,647     206,328
                                           ----------  ----------  ----------
                                           $  779,524  $  501,697  $  691,953
                                           ==========  ==========  ==========
</TABLE>
 
  Sales to unaffiliated customers are based on the location of the Company's
subsidiary. Transfers between geographic areas consist of products and
services that are sold at amounts generally above cost and are consistent with
governing tax regulations. Operating income (loss) is total sales less
operating expenses. Identifiable assets are those assets used in each
geographic area. Export sales are United States foreign direct sales to
unaffiliated customers primarily in Europe and Asia Pacific.
 
                                     F-20
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
12. STOCK-BASED BENEFIT PLANS
 
  Stock Option Plans. The Company has several stock option plans under which
key employees have been granted incentive (ISOs) and nonqualified (NSOs) stock
options to purchase the Company's common stock. Generally, options are
exercisable within four years from the date of grant and expire five to ten
years after the date of grant. ISOs granted under the plans have exercise
prices of not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of the common
stock at the date of grant. Exercise prices of NSOs range from $0.01 to the
fair market value of the common stock at the date of grant. At December 28,
1997, 3,172 employees were eligible and participating in the plans.
 
  On July 10, 1996, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of
AMD approved a stock option repricing program pursuant to which employees of
the Company (excluding officers) could elect to cancel certain unexercised
stock options in exchange for new stock options with an exercise price of
$11.88, equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on the New
York Stock Exchange on July 15, 1996. Approximately 6.1 million options were
eligible for repricing, of which 5.3 million were repriced. The vesting
schedules and expiration dates of repriced stock options were extended by one
year, and certain employees canceled stock options for four shares of common
stock in exchange for repriced options for three shares of common stock.
 
  The following is a summary of stock option activity and related information:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               1997               1996                  1995
                         ------------------ ------------------ -----------------------
                                  WEIGHTED-          WEIGHTED-
                                   AVERAGE            AVERAGE
                                  EXERCISE           EXERCISE               PRICE
                         OPTIONS    PRICE   OPTIONS    PRICE   OPTIONS    PER SHARE
                         -------  --------- -------  --------- -------  --------------
                                           (SHARES IN THOUSANDS)
<S>                      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>
Options:
  Outstanding at
   beginning of year.... 18,651    $12.17   16,329    $16.77   14,825   $0.50 - $30.25
  Granted...............  3,392     34.33   11,245     12.96    4,327    3.13 -  35.88
  Canceled..............   (782)    16.05   (7,042)    26.64     (510)   0.50 -  35.75
  Exercised............. (3,481)     8.03   (1,881)     4.07   (2,313)   0.50 -  30.25
                         ------             ------             ------
  Outstanding at end of
   year................. 17,780     17.07   18,651     12.17   16,329    0.50 -  35.88
                         ======             ======             ======
  Available for grant at
   beginning of year....  3,845                751              3,386
  Available for grant at
   end of year..........    966              3,845                751
</TABLE>
 
  The following table summarizes information about options outstanding at
December 28, 1997:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            OPTIONS OUTSTANDING                   OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                              ------------------------------------------------ --------------------------
                                NUMBER      WEIGHTED-AVERAGE      WEIGHTED-      NUMBER      WEIGHTED-
                              OUTSTANDING REMAINING CONTRACTUAL    AVERAGE     EXERCISABLE    AVERAGE
   RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICES   AT 12/28/97     LIFE (YEARS)      EXERCISE PRICE AT 12/28/97 EXERCISE PRICE
   ------------------------   ----------- --------------------- -------------- ----------- --------------
                                                         (SHARES IN THOUSANDS)
   <S>                        <C>         <C>                   <C>            <C>         <C>
       $ 0.01 - $ 9.38           2,953            5.34              $ 5.70        2,360        $ 5.89
         9.50 -  11.88           4,718            7.51               11.71        2,374         11.61
        12.13 -  18.75           5,744            7.54               14.50        2,409         14.36
        18.81 -  44.50           4,365            8.68               33.93        1,156         29.52
                                ------                                            -----
       $ 0.01 - $44.50          17,780            7.45               17.07        8,299         13.28
                                ======                                            =====
</TABLE>
 
                                     F-21
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Stock Purchase Plan. The Company has an employee stock purchase plan (ESPP)
that allows participating employees to purchase, through payroll deductions,
shares of the Company's common stock at 85 percent of the fair market value at
specified dates. At December 28, 1997, 7,015 employees were eligible to
participate in the plan and 1,379,195 common shares remained available for
issuance under the plan. A summary of stock purchased under the plan is shown
below.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1997    1996    1995
                                                         ------- ------- -------
                                                            (THOUSANDS EXCEPT
                                                         EMPLOYEE PARTICIPANTS)
     <S>                                                 <C>     <C>     <C>
     Aggregate purchase price........................... $14,470 $13,138 $11,457
     Shares purchased...................................     673   1,035     501
     Employee participants..............................   3,046   2,963   2,825
</TABLE>
 
  Stock Appreciation Rights Plans. The Company maintains three stock
appreciation rights plans under which stock appreciation rights (SARs) either
have been or may be granted to key employees. The number of SARs exercised
plus common stock issued under the stock option plans may not exceed the
number of shares authorized under the stock option plans. SARs may be granted
in tandem with outstanding stock options, in tandem with future stock option
grants or independently of any stock options. Generally, the terms of SARs
granted under the plans are similar to those of options granted under the
stock option plans, including exercise prices, exercise dates and expiration
dates. To date, the Company has granted only limited SARs, which become
exercisable only in the event of certain changes in control of the Company.
 
  Restricted Stock Award Plan. The Company established the 1987 restricted
stock award plan under which up to two million shares of common stock may be
issued to employees, subject to terms and conditions determined at the
discretion of the Board of Directors. The Company entered into agreements to
issue 15,000 and 320,609 shares in 1997 and 1996, respectively. To date,
agreements covering 243,712 shares have been canceled without issuance and
1,501,559 shares have been issued pursuant to prior agreements. At
December 28, 1997, agreements covering 491,941 shares were outstanding under
the plan and no shares remained available for future awards. Outstanding
awards vest under varying terms within five years.
 
  Stock-Based Compensation. As permitted under SFAS 123, the Company has
elected to follow APB 25 and related Interpretations in accounting for stock-
based awards to employees. Pro forma information regarding net income (loss)
and net income (loss) per share is required by SFAS 123 for awards granted
after December 31, 1994, as if the Company had accounted for its stock-based
awards to employees under the fair value method of SFAS 123. The fair value of
the Company's stock-based awards to employees was estimated using a Black-
Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions
and are fully transferable. In addition, the Black-Scholes model requires the
input of highly subjective assumptions including the expected stock price
volatility. Because the Company's stock-based awards to employees have
characteristics significantly different from those of traded options, and
because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the
fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its stock-
based awards to employees. The fair value of the Company's stock-based awards
to employees was estimated assuming no expected dividends and the following
weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            OPTIONS               ESPP
                                       -------------------  -------------------
                                       1997   1996   1995   1997   1996   1995
                                       -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----
   <S>                                 <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>
   Expected life (years)..............  3.35   3.16   2.43   0.25   0.25   0.25
   Expected stock price volatility.... 54.69% 48.02% 53.29% 68.41% 47.81% 42.15%
   Risk-free interest rate............  6.21%  6.44%  5.88%  5.37%  5.29%  5.69%
</TABLE>
 
 
                                     F-22
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  For pro forma purposes, the estimated fair value of the Company's stock-
based awards to employees is amortized over the options' vesting period (for
options) and the three-month purchase period (for stock purchases under the
ESPP). The Company's pro forma information follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1997      1996      1995
                                                    --------  --------  --------
                                                        (THOUSANDS EXCEPT
                                                        PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
   <S>                                              <C>       <C>       <C>
   Net income (loss)--as reported.................  $(21,090) $(68,950) $216,326
   Net income (loss)--pro forma...................   (44,304)  (89,451)  205,047
   Basic net income (loss) per share--as reported.     (0.15)    (0.51)     1.69
   Basic net income (loss) per share--pro forma...     (0.32)    (0.66)     1.61
   Diluted net income (loss) per share--as
    reported......................................     (0.15)    (0.51)     1.57
   Diluted net income (loss) per share--pro forma.     (0.32)    (0.66)     1.49
</TABLE>
 
  Because SFAS 123 is applicable only to awards granted subsequent to December
31, 1994, its pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until approximately
1999. A total of 3,172,820 stock based awards were granted during 1997 with
exercise prices equal to the market price of the stock on the grant date. The
weighted-average exercise price and weighted-average fair value of these
awards were $36.11 and $16.07, respectively. A total of 234,285 stock based
awards were granted during 1997 with exercise prices less than the market
price of the stock on the grant date. The weighted-average exercise price and
weighted-average fair value of these awards were $8.09 and $23.82,
respectively.
 
  The weighted-average fair value of stock purchase rights during 1997 was
$8.42 per share.
 
13. OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
  Profit Sharing Program. The Company has a profit sharing program to which
the Board of Directors has authorized semiannual contributions. Profit sharing
contributions were approximately $4 million in 1997 and $45 million in 1995.
There were no profit sharing contributions in 1996.
 
  Retirement Savings Plan. The Company has a retirement savings plan, commonly
known as a 401(k) plan, that allows participating United States employees to
contribute from one percent to 15 percent of their pre-tax salary subject to
I.R.S. limits. The Company makes a matching contribution calculated at 50
cents on each dollar of the first 3 percent of participant contributions, to a
maximum of 1.5 percent of eligible compensation. The Company's contributions
to the 401(k) plan were approximately $5 million, $5 million and $4 million
for 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. There are eight investment funds in
which each employee may invest contributions in whole percentage increments.
NexGen had a 401(k) plan which allowed employees to contribute from one
percent to ten percent of their pre-tax salary subject to I.R.S. limits.
NexGen did not match employee contributions.
 
                                     F-23
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
14. COMMITMENTS
 
  The Company leases certain of its facilities under agreements which expire
at various dates through 2011. The Company also leases certain of its
manufacturing and office equipment for terms ranging from one to five years.
Rent expense was approximately $48 million, $40 million and $37 million in
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
  For each of the next five years and beyond, noncancelable long-term
operating lease obligations and commitments to purchase manufacturing supplies
and services are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           OPERATING  PURCHASE
                                                            LEASES   COMMITMENTS
                                                           --------- -----------
                                                                (THOUSANDS)
     <S>                                                   <C>       <C>
     1998.................................................  $32,638    $21,403
     1999.................................................   26,783     18,884
     2000.................................................   21,619     16,775
     2001.................................................   16,330      4,956
     2002.................................................   15,635      4,956
     Beyond 2002..........................................  104,453     24,690
</TABLE>
 
  The operating leases of the Company's corporate marketing, general and
administrative facility expire in December 1998. These leases provide the
Company with an option to purchase the facility for $40 million during the
lease term. At the end of the lease term, the Company is obligated to either
purchase the facility or to arrange for its sale to a third party with a
guarantee of residual value to the seller equal to the option purchase price.
Alternatively, the Company may seek to renegotiate the terms of the lease.
 
  In addition to the purchase commitments above, the Company had commitments
of approximately $452 million for the construction or acquisition of
additional property, plant and equipment at December 28, 1997.
 
  AMD Saxony is building Dresden Fab 30, a 900,000-square-foot submicron
integrated circuit manufacturing and design facility over the next four years
at a present estimated cost of approximately $1.9 billion. The Federal
Republic of Germany and the State of Saxony have agreed to support the project
in the form of (i) a guarantee of 65 percent of the bank debt to be incurred
by AMD Saxony up to a maximum of DM1.65 billion, (ii) investment grants and
subsidies totaling DM501 million and (iii) interest subsidies from the State
of Saxony totaling DM300 million. In March 1997, AMD Saxony entered into the
Dresden Loan Agreement under which loan facilities totaling DM1.65 billion
will be made available. In connection with the Dresden Loan Agreement, the
Company has agreed to invest in AMD Saxony over the next two years equity or
subordinated loans in an amount totaling approximately DM478 million, and to
guarantee a portion of AMD Saxony's obligations under the Dresden Loan
Agreement up to a maximum of DM218 million until Dresden Fab 30 has been
completed. After completion of Dresden Fab 30, the Company has agreed to make
funds available to AMD Saxony up to DM145 million if the subsidiary does not
meet its fixed charge coverage ratio covenant. The Company has agreed to fund
certain contingent obligations, including various obligations to fund project
cost overruns, if any. The Company commenced construction in the second
quarter of 1997 and completed construction of the building shell for the plant
and administration building at the end of 1997. The planned Dresden Fab 30
costs are denominated in deutsche marks and, therefore, are subject to change
due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The Company entered into foreign
currency hedging transactions for Dresden Fab 30 during the first quarter of
1997.
 
  In December 1995, the Company signed a five-year, comprehensive cross-
license agreement with Intel. The cross-license is royalty-bearing for the
Company's products that use certain Intel technologies. The Company is
required to pay Intel minimum non-refundable royalties during the years 1998
through 2000.
 
                                     F-24
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
15. INVESTMENT IN JOINT VENTURE
 
  In 1993, AMD and Fujitsu Limited formed a joint venture, Fujitsu AMD
Semiconductor Limited (FASL), for the development and manufacture of non-
volatile memory devices. Through FASL, the two companies have constructed and
are operating an advanced integrated circuit manufacturing facility in Aizu-
Wakamatsu, Japan, to produce Flash memory devices. The Company's share of FASL
is 49.992 percent and the investment is being accounted for under the equity
method. In 1995, the Company invested an additional $18 million in FASL. The
Company's share of FASL net income during 1997 was $25 million, net of income
taxes of approximately $23 million. At December 28, 1997, the cumulative
adjustment related to the translation of the FASL financial statements into
U.S. dollars resulted in a decrease of approximately $46 million to the
investment in FASL. In 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company purchased $242
million, $234 million and $128 million, respectively, of Flash memory devices
from FASL. At December 28, 1997, and December 29, 1996, the Company had
outstanding payables of $40 million and $27 million, respectively, to FASL for
Flash memory device purchases. At December 28, 1997, and December 29, 1996,
the Company had outstanding royalty receivables of $6 million and $4 million,
respectively, as a result of FASL sales. In 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company
earned royalty income of $19 million, $21 million and $11 million,
respectively, as a result of FASL sales.
 
  Pursuant to a cross-equity provision between AMD and Fujitsu Limited, the
Company purchased shares of Fujitsu Limited common stock and owns
approximately 0.5 million shares at December 28, 1997. Under the same
provision, Fujitsu Limited has purchased 3 million shares of AMD common stock,
and is required to purchase an additional 1.5 million shares over the next
several years, for a total investment not to exceed $100 million.
 
  In the third quarter of 1997, FASL completed construction of the building
for a second Flash memory device wafer fabrication facility, FASL II, at a
site contiguous to the existing FASL facility in Aizu-Wakamatsu, Japan.
Equipment installation is in progress and the facility is expected to cost
approximately $1.1 billion when fully equipped. Capital expenditures for FASL
II construction to date have been funded by cash generated from FASL
operations and borrowings by FASL. To the extent that FASL is unable to secure
the necessary funds for FASL II, the Company may be required to contribute
cash or guarantee third-party loans in proportion to its 49.992 percentage
interest in FASL. At December 28, 1997, AMD had loan guarantees of $48 million
outstanding with respect to such loans.
    
  The following is condensed financial data of FASL:    
 
                      THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 28, 1997
 
<TABLE>   
<CAPTION>
                                                        1997     1996     1995
                                                      -------- -------- --------
                                                             (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                                <C>      <C>      <C>
   Net sales......................................... $423,251 $459,075 $252,069
   Gross profit......................................  105,691  200,255  120,066
   Operating income..................................   94,863  185,825  117,411
   Net income........................................   46,000  121,119   72,286
</TABLE>    
 
                    DECEMBER 28, 1997 AND DECEMBER 29, 1996
 
<TABLE>   
<CAPTION>
                                                                1997     1996
                                                              -------- --------
                                                                 (THOUSANDS)
   <S>                                                        <C>      <C>
   Current assets............................................ $134,499 $ 97,693
   Non-current assets........................................  627,965  542,684
   Current liabilities.......................................  339,151  215,524
   Non-current liabilities...................................      662      474
</TABLE>    
 
 
                                     F-25
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  The Company's share of the above FASL net income differs from the equity in
net income of joint venture reported on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations due to adjustments resulting from the related party relationship
between FASL and the Company which are reflected on the Company's Consolidated
Statements of Operations.
 
16. CONTINGENCIES
 
I. LITIGATION
 
  A. McDaid v. Sanders, et al.; Kozlowski, et al. v. Sanders, et al. The
McDaid complaint was filed November 3, 1995 and the Kozlowski complaint was
filed November 15, 1995. Both actions allege violations of Section 10(b) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder,
against the Company and certain individual officers and directors (the
Individual Defendants), and purportedly were filed on behalf of all persons
who purchased or otherwise acquired common stock of the Company during the
period April 11, 1995 through September 25, 1995. The complaints seek damages
allegedly caused by alleged materially misleading statements and/or material
omissions by the Company and the Individual Defendants regarding the Company's
development of its K5 microprocessor, which statements and omissions, the
plaintiffs claim, allegedly operated to inflate artificially the price paid
for the Company's common stock during the period. The complaints also allege
that Company statements regarding its K6 and K7 series microprocessors were
materially misleading. The complaints seek compensatory damages in an amount
to be proven at trial, fees and costs, and extraordinary equitable and/or
injunctive relief. The Court has consolidated both actions into one.
Defendants filed answers in the consolidated action in May 1996. The trial is
scheduled to commence on January 11, 1999. Based upon information presently
known to management, the Company does not believe that the ultimate resolution
of this lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition
or results of operations of the Company.
 
  B. AMD v. Altera Corporation. This litigation, which began in 1994, involves
multiple claims and counterclaims for patent infringement relating to the
Company's and Altera Corporation's programmable logic devices. In a trial held
in May of 1996, a jury found that at least five of the eight AMD patents-in-
suit were licensed to Altera. As a result of the bench trial held on August 11
and 13, 1997, the Court held that Altera is licensed to the three remaining
AMD patents-in-suit. Seven patents were asserted by Altera in its counterclaim
against the Company. The Court determined that AMD is licensed to five of the
seven patents and two remain in suit. Altera filed a motion to recover
attorneys' fees on November 17, 1997. The Company then filed, and the Court
granted, a motion to stay determination of the attorney's fees motion until
resolution of its appeal. The Company has filed an appeal of the rulings of
the jury and Court determinations that Altera is licensed to each of the
Company's eight patents-in-suit. Based upon information presently known to
management, the Company does not believe that the ultimate resolution of this
lawsuit will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or
results of operations of the Company.
 
II. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
  Clean-Up Orders. Since 1981, the Company has discovered, investigated and
begun remediation of three sites where releases from underground chemical
tanks at its facilities in Santa Clara County, California adversely affected
the ground water. The chemicals released into the ground water were commonly
in use in the semiconductor industry in the wafer fabrication process prior to
1979. At least one of the released chemicals (which is no longer used by the
Company) has been identified as a probable carcinogen.
 
  In 1991, the Company received four Final Site Clean-up Requirements Orders
from the California Regional Water Quality Control Board, San Francisco Bay
Region relating to the three sites. One of the orders named the Company as
well as TRW Microwave, Inc. and Philips Semiconductors Corporation. Another of
the orders named the Company as well as National Semiconductor Corporation.
 
                                     F-26
<PAGE>
 
                         ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  The three sites in Santa Clara County are on the National Priorities List
(Superfund). If the Company fails to satisfy federal compliance requirements
or inadequately performs the compliance measures, the government (a) can bring
an action to enforce compliance, or (b) can undertake the desired response
actions itself and later bring an action to recover its costs, and penalties,
which is up to three times the costs of clean-up activities, if appropriate.
With regard to certain claims related to this matter the statute of
limitations has been tolled.
 
  The Company has computed and recorded the estimated environmental liability
in accordance with applicable accounting rules and has not recorded any
potential insurance recoveries in determining the estimated costs of the
cleanup. The amount of environmental charges to earnings has not been material
during any of the last three fiscal years. The Company believes that the
potential liability, if any, in excess of amounts already accrued with respect
to the foregoing environmental matters will not have a material adverse effect
on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
III. OTHER MATTERS
 
  The Company is a defendant or plaintiff in various other actions which arose
in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the ultimate
disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or results of operations of the Company.
 
                                     F-27
<PAGE>
 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                          ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
                YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, DECEMBER 29, 1996
                             AND DECEMBER 28, 1997
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               ADDITIONS
                                                CHARGED
                                              (REDUCTIONS
                                     BALANCE   CREDITED)                BALANCE
                                    BEGINNING     TO                    END OF
                                    OF PERIOD OPERATIONS  DEDUCTIONS(1) PERIOD
                                    --------- ----------- ------------- -------
                                                    (THOUSANDS)
<S>                                 <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>
Allowance for doubtful accounts:
  Years ended:
    December 31, 1995..............  $10,469    $7,784       $(2,635)   $15,618
    December 29, 1996..............   15,618     2,000        (7,809)     9,809
    December 28, 1997..............    9,809     1,500           (88)    11,221
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Accounts (written off) recovered, net.
 
 
                                      S-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.50(A-2)
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>SUPPLEMENTAL AGMT TO SYNDICATED LOAN AGMT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.50
                                                                       (a-2)

                        ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES, INC.

                           SECRETARY'S CERTIFICATE

        The undersigned, Thomas M. McCoy, certifies that he is the Secretary 
of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a Delaware Corporation ("the Company"), and 
that, as such, he is authorized to execute this Certificate on behalf of the 
Company, and further certifies that the attached is a fair and accurate 
translation of the Supplemental Agreement to the Syndicated Loan Agreement 
dated February 6, 1998 between AMD Saxony Manufacturing GmbH and Dresdner Bank
AG and Dresdner Bank Luxembourg SA and other financial institutions named 
therein as lenders.

        WITNESS the signature of the undersigned this 26th day of February, 
1998.

                                        /s/ Thomas M. McCoy
                                        ---------------------------------
                                        Thomas M. McCoy
                                        Secretary

[COMPANY SEAL APPEARS HERE]
<PAGE>
 
                                                             EXHIBIT 10.50 (a-2)


ENGLISH VERSION OF THE LEGALLY BINDING GERMAN LANGUAGE SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT,
PREPARED FOR CONVENIENCE ONLY. NOT A TRANSLATION.


                                                                                
                             SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
                                6 FEBRUARY 1998
                                        
                                    between
                                        
                         AMD SAXONY MANUFACTURING GMBH
                                        
                                      and
                                        
                                DRESDNER BANK AG
                                        
                                      and
                                        
                   THE OTHER BANKS AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
                                  NAMED HEREIN

                                      AND
                                        
                         DRESDNER BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A.
                                        

                    ________________________________________

                                     TO THE

                           SYNDICATED LOAN AGREEMENT

                                     DATED

                                 11. MARCH 1997
                    ________________________________________
                                        


                     Doser Amereller Noack/Baker & McKenzie
                                        
                                   Frankfurt


*CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OMITTED AND FILED SEPARATELY WITH THE SECURITIES AND 
EXCHANGE COMMISSION

<PAGE>
 
                                     INDEX
                                     -----
                                        

                                   Schedules
                                        
Schedule 1  Supplemental Agreement to Sponsors' Support Agreement
Schedule 2  Supplemental Agreement to AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement
Schedule 3  Project Budget
Schedule 4  Management Plan
Schedule 5  Supplemental Agreement to Sponsors' Loan Agreement
Schedule 6  Legal Opinion O'Melveny & Myers LLP
Schedule 7  Legal Opinion O'Melveny & Myers LLP
Schedule 8  Legal Opinion Norr Stiefenhofer Lutz
Schedule 9  Legal Opinion Doser Amereller Noack / Baker & McKenzie
Schedule 10 Legal Opinion Feddersen Laule Scherzberg & Ohle Hansen Ewerwahn
Schedule 11 65/35 Guaranty Amendment Decision
Schedule 12 Maximum 65/35 Guaranty Amount
Schedule 13 Supplemental Agreement to the AMD Saxonia Hedging Agreement
<PAGE>
 
                             SUPPLEMENTAL AGREEMENT
                             ----------------------
                                       TO
                                       --
                   SYNDICATED LOAN AGREEMENT OF 11 MARCH 1997
                   ------------------------------------------
                                        
                                    between


1.   AMD SAXONY MANUFACTURING GMBH, Dresden, registered in the Commercial
Register of the Dresden County Court HRB 13186,

                                    - hereinafter referred to as "AMD Saxonia" -



2.   DRESDNER BANK AG in Dresden,

                            - hereinafter also referred to as "Security Agent" -


3.   The other Banks and financial institutions set out on the signatory pages
to this Supplemental Agreement,

                                            - the parties referred to at 2 and 3
                        hereinafter each referred to as a "Bank" or together as
                        the "Banks", as the case may be -


and

4.   DRESDNER BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A..

                   - hereinafter also referred to as "Agent" or "Paying Agent" -



                                    PREAMBLE
                                    --------
                                        
1.   On 11 March 1997, AMD Saxonia, Dresdner Bank AG (in its capacity as "Agent"
and "Security Agent"), the Banks and Dresdner Bank Luxembourg S.A. (in its
capacity as "Paying Agent") entered into a syndicated loan agreement
(hereinafter "Loan Agreement") providing for credit facilities in an aggregate
total amount of DM 1.650.000.000 for the purpose of the partial financing of the
Project Costs more particularly set out therein. On 1 July 1997, Dresdner Bank
AG transferred its rights and obligations as Agent to Dresdner Bank Luxembourg
S.A. pursuant to (S) 22.11 of the Loan Agreement.

2.   As a result of ongoing developments in the production of microprocessors
and the presently anticipated conversion of the production process from
aluminium based metallisation to copper and the assumption of a US$ exchange
rate of DM 1.80 instead of the 
<PAGE>
 
original notional exchange rate of DM 1.45 on which the original Management
Plan was based, the projected total investment costs of DM 2,430,000,000 on
which the terms of the Loan Agreement were based have increased by DM
687,000,000 to a total amount of DM 3,117,000,000.

3.   On 26 September 1997, AMD Inc. made available to AMD Saxonia an amount of
US$ 34,000,000 as an additional subordinated loan pursuant to Section 2.4 of the
Sponsors' Loan Agreement. The aforesaid additional subordinated loan of US$
34,000,000 will not be taken into account in satisfaction of the obligations of
AMD Inc. to make available to AMD Saxonia, via AMD Holding equity in the form of
ordinary share capital in an aggregate amount of DM 217,500,000 and the
obligations of AMD Inc. and/or AMD Holding to make subordinated loans or
additional equity contribution in cash to the reserves of AMD Saxonia in an
aggregate amount of DM 290,000,000 pursuant to the Sponsors' Support Agreement
and the Sponsors' Loan Agreement. In addition, the entire remaining additional
projected financing costs will be financed solely by AMD Inc. by way of equity
or additional subordinated loans to be made available to AMD Saxonia in an
amount of US$ 70,000,000 (which may be made available in either DM or US$) and
by the cash flow expected to be generated through AMD Inc.'s off-take and
reimbursement obligations under the AMD Holding and AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase
Agreements and the AMD Holding and AMD Saxonia Research, Design and Development
Agreements.

4.   In the light of the circumstances and agreements referred to above, the
parties have agreed to changes to the Loan Agreement on the terms and conditions
more particularly set out below.

1.1  Terms and expressions defined in the Loan Agreement shall have the same
meaning when used in this Supplemental Agreement, unless the context requires
otherwise.

1.2  Unless the context requires otherwise, any reference to an Operative
Document or a Project Agreement shall be a reference to such Document or
Agreement as it shall have been, or from time to time be, amended, varied,
reissued, replaced, novated or supplemented in accordance with its terms,
including pursuant to this Supplemental Agreement.


                                     (S) 2
                        AMENDMENTS TO THE LOAN AGREEMENT
                                        
The Loan Agreement will be amended as more particularly set out below. The Loan
Agreement shall remain in force in all other respects.

2.1  In the introduction immediately before the Preamble, under item number 2,
""Agent" and" shall be deleted and under item number 4, after "as", there shall
be added "the Agent or the" and after "Paying Agent" there shall be added ", as
the case may be".

2.2  In para. 2 of the Preamble, "estimated by AMD Saxonia, AMD Holding and AMD
Inc. (together the "AMD Companies") at DM 2,430,000,000" shall be deleted and
shall be replaced by "originally estimated by AMD Saxonia, AMD Holding and AMD
Inc. (together the "AMD Companies") at DM 2,430,000,000 and now increased to
DM3,117,000,000".
<PAGE>
 
2.3  In para. 3 of the Preamble, the first sentence shall be deleted and
replaced by the following:

           "On 26 September 1997, AMD Inc. made available to AMD Saxonia an
           amount of US$ 34,000,000 as a subordinated loan pursuant to Section
           3.5 of the Sponsors' Support Agreement and Section 2.5 of the
           Sponsors' Loan Agreement. In addition, AMD Inc. has made available to
           AMD Saxonia, via AMD Holding, equity in the form of ordinary share
           capital in an aggregate amount of DM 217,500,000. Furthermore AMD
           Inc. and/or AMD Holding has undertaken to make subordinated loans to
           or, in the case of AMD Holding, additional equity contributions in
           cash to the reserves of AMD Saxonia in an aggregate amount of the DM
           equivalent of US$ 200,000,000 (at least DM 290,000,000) and an
           additional amount equal to, or the equivalent of, US$ 70,000,000
           (which amount may be made available to AMD Saxonia by way of loan in
           either Dollars or Deutsche Marks and may be carried by AMD Saxonia as
           a Deutsche Mark denominated liability notwithstanding the currency in
           which it is made available to AMD Saxonia)."

2.4  In (S) 1.1, the definition of "Banking Day" shall be replaced by the
following:

           "each day on which banks are generally open for business in London,
           Frankfurt am Main, Dresden and Luxembourg."

2.5  In (S) 1.1, at the end of the definition of "Guaranty Decision" the full
stop shall be replaced by a comma and there shall be added as a new paragraph
"and the Memorandum of Understanding ("Gemeinsame Feststellungen") of 19
February 1997, the Amendment Decision of 12 December 1997 and the letter from
C&L Deutsche Revision AG dated 5 January 1998," after the words "in the edition
dated 1993 F 12.10.1990".

2.6  In (S) 1.1, in the definition of "Cost Overrun", "initial" shall be
deleted.

2.7  In (S) 4.1.1, the following changes shall be made:

     (i)   the first sentence will be replaced as follows:

           "4.1.1 Advances shall be made up to the cumulative limit in each
           Project Phase set out in the Drawdown Schedule in accordance with the
           Project Schedule which limit shall not, however, without the prior
           written consent of the Guarantor, be greater than the maximum
           guaranty amount for any calendar year prescribed by the Guarantor
           pursuant to Schedule 63."


     (ii)  the second paragraph will be replaced as follows:

           "Drawdowns in any Project Phase are permitted only in the amount of
           Project Costs which have been incurred during the same Project Phase,
           as the same are documented by invoices and other supporting evidence
           to be 
<PAGE>
 
           furnished together with the Drawdown Notice, as required below.
           Drawdowns in a current Project Phase are however permitted in
           respect of Project Costs which are shown to have been incurred in
           respect of an invoice for goods or services performed or delivered,
           submitted in the last thirty days prior to the end of a prior
           Project Phase and which have been included in full in the first
           Drawdown Notice of such current Project Phase."

2.8  (S) 5.1.4 shall be replaced by the following:

           "5.1.4 Receipt of an extract from the Land Register confirming that
           AMD Saxonia has been registered in the Register as the owner of
           parcels referred to as nos. Folio 851 parcels nos. 150/2, 121/2, 122,
           123, 124, 125/2, 126, 127, 128/2, 129/3, 130, 131, 132, 133/1, 134,
           135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 143a, 144, 145, 146,
           147, 148, 149, 151/2, 152, 153, 154/2, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159,
           160/1, 160/2, 161, 162, 694/1 in the County Court of Dresden von
           Wilschdorf and that the land charge to be granted in accordance with
           (S) 8.1.6 has been registered and that there are no prior registered
           charges."

2.9  In (S) 5.1.6, the following amendments shall be made:

     (i)   para. (xii) shall be replaced by the following:

           "(xii) copies, certified by a lawyer as true copies, of Material
           Equipment Supply Contracts and Material Service Contracts (to the
           extent executed as at the date of the initial Drawdown Notice),
           including relevant Consents and Agreements  in the form set out in
                                                                             
           Schedule 40, Annex 3 of Schedule 49 or in such other form as the
           -----------             -----------                             
           Agent has consented to as well as all other Consents and Agreements
           required in accordance with the Security Documents in the form set
           out in Schedules 49 and 55;"
                  ------------     --  

     (ii) para (xvi) shall be replaced by the following:

           "(xvi) confirmation in writing from the State Ministry of Saxony for
           Economics and Labour that it has received a Letter from the European
           Commission confirming its non-objection to the interest subsidies to
           be paid under the Subsidy Agreements."


2.10 (S) 5.1.15 shall be replaced by the following:

           "5.1.15 The Technical Advisor has received the Plans and
           Specifications in form and substance satisfactory to the Technical
           Advisor and the Agent has received confirmation in writing, to that
           effect."

2.11 In (S) 5.2.5 "certified copy" shall be deleted and replaced with "a copy
certified by a lawyer".
<PAGE>
 
2.12 (S) 6.9 shall be replaced by the following:

     "6.9 All payments to be made by AMD Saxonia to the Banks pursuant to the
     terms of this Loan Agreement shall at all times be made to the Paying
     Agent's account no. 0809580200 with Dresdner Bank in Frankfurt or such
     other account as may be specified by the Paying Agent on the relevant due
     date. The Security Agent is hereby also authorised to debit the relevant
     amounts due from AMD Saxonia's [***] with the Security Agent in Dresden on
     or after the due date and to pay the same to the Agent for distribution to
     the individual Banks. Payments made otherwise than in accordance with this
     provision shall not constitute good discharge in favour of AMD Saxonia".

2.13 In (S) 7.1, "2006" shall be deleted and shall be replaced by "2005".

2.14 In (S) 7.2, the repayment schedule shall be deleted and replaced by the
following repayment schedule:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INSTALMENTS                                        PERCENTAGE OF THE AGGREGATE PRINCIPAL
                                                  AMOUNT OF THE FACILITIES OUTSTANDING AT
                                                     THE END OF THE AVAILABILITY PERIOD
                                                            PURSUANT TO (S) 4.2
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>
first and second instalment                      6.50 % each
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
third and fourth instalment                      13.50 % each
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
fifth and sixth instalment                       14.25 % each
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
seventh and eighth instalment                    10.50 % each
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ninth and tenth instalment                       5.25 % each
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

2.15    (S) 8.1.6 shall be replaced by the following:

           "8.1.6 a first priority land charge over real property registered in
           the Land Registry of the Dresden County Court, Dresden von Wilschdorf
           parcels numbers Folio 851 parcels nos.150/2, 121/2, 122, 123, 124,
           125/2, 126, 127, 128/2, 129/3, 130, 131, 132, 133/1, 134, 135, 136,
           137, 138, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 143a, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148,
           149, 151/2, 152, 153, 154/2, 155, 156, 157, 158, 159, 160/1, 160/2,
           161, 162, 694/1 of AMD Saxonia in respect of an amount of DM
           1,650,000,000 together with interest in an amount of 15 % per annum
           together with a lump sum payment in an amount of 5 % of the total
           charge amount as an immediately enforceable charge without prior
           charges in Section III of the Register in favour of the Security
           Agent together with a personal acknowledgement of enforceability by
           AMD Saxonia to be granted in the form set out in Schedule 43;"
                                                            -----------  

2.16 In (S) 15.1.5, the second sentence will be replaced as follows:

           "For this purpose, "Opinion Reservations" means limitations on the
           enforceability of legal documents which are subject to German law or
           the law of the U.S.A. or one of its states to the extent that in
           respect of these 


*** CONFIDENTIAL TREATMENT IS REQUESTED FOR THE MARKED LANGUAGE


<PAGE>
 
           circumstances qualifications are expressly made in the legal opinions
           which are to be furnished to the Agent pursuant to (S) 5.1.11 and
           which are to be approved by the Agent." 

2.17 (S) 16.2.6, shall be replaced by the following:

     "16.2.6  AMD Saxonia will furnish to the Agent:

(i)  within ten (10) Banking Days after the end of each calendar month a status
     report relating to the progress of construction in the form set out in
                                                                           
     Schedule 8; and
     ----------     

(ii) a Statement as to the Use and Source of Funds in accordance with Schedule
                                                                      --------
     16  as follows:
     --             

     (a)   within ten (10) Banking Days after the end of each quarter and within
           ten (10) Banking Days after the end of each Project Phase, signed by
           the Project Manager; and

     (b)   within thirty (30) Banking Days after the end of each quarter and
           within thirty (30) Banking Days after the end of each Project Phase,
           signed by the Auditor,

PROVIDED THAT the Project Manager shall be entitled to furnish to the Agent an
     update of the Statement as to the Use and Source of Funds delivered by it
     under (S) 16.2.6 (ii) (a) no later than the time of delivery of the
     Auditor's Statement referred to in (S) 16.2.6 (ii) (b) above."

     2.18  [Corresponding change to (S) 19.2 in the English text not necessary]

     2.19  In (S) 19.3, "and assets" shall be inserted after "securities" and in
(S) 19.6 "and securities" shall be deleted and replaced by "securities and
assets".


     2.20  In (S) 19.4, the first sentence shall be deleted and replaced by the
following sentence:

     "If the balance standing to the credit of the Project Accounts (excluding
           the reserve account) after 1 January, 1999 and before Completion,
           exceeds in the aggregate an amount of DM 20,000,000, on the first day
           on which banks are open for business in Dresden in the months
           January, April, July and October of each year, AMD Saxonia shall
           transfer all amounts in excess thereof on such date to a reserve
           account to be maintained with the Security Agent until the amount
           standing to the credit of the reserve account reaches an amount of DM
           72,500,000 (Minimum Reserve Amount), whereby AMD Saxonia shall be
           obliged to comply always with all agreed terms of payments, except as
           otherwise agreed with the Agent."

     2.21  In (S) 21.2, the following changes shall be made:
<PAGE>
 
(i)  in para. (ix) "4.2, 4.3" shall be added after "Sections 4.1,"; and

(ii) there shall be included after para. (ix) the following new para:

     "(x) If AMD Inc. undertakes a "Stock Offering" within the meaning of the
           Sponsors' Support Agreement in the Fiscal Year 1998 and, if permitted
           under the Indenture referred to in (S) 21.2 (xvi) of this Agreement
           (without utilizing any of the provisions contained in the first
           proviso to Section 4.07 (iv) thereof), AMD Inc. fails to contribute
           the full amount of the "Class C Sponsors Loans" within the meaning,
           of the Sponsors' Support Agreement forthwith following receipt of
           proceeds from the "Stock Offering" referred to above; the events
           referred to in (ix) above shall remain unaffected."

All references throughout the Loan Agreement to paras (x) to (xxviii) shall be
     changed accordingly. In addition, para "(x)" shall be added to sentence 2
     of the last paragraph of (S) 21.2.

     2.22  In (S) 21.2 (xxiii), "DM 2,430,000,000 by more than 30 %" shall be
deleted and shall be replaced by "DM 3,846,000,000".

     2.23  In (S) 26, the first two sentences shall be replaced as follows:

     "The Banks are not entitled prior to Completion to assign, whether in whole
           or in part, their rights under this Agreement. Assignments and sub-
           participations to affiliated companies within the meaning of (S) 15
           of the Stock Corporation Act are permitted at any time-to the extent
           not made by a Bank in Germany to an enterprise outside Germany, as
           well as assignments to third parties following termination of this
           Agreement."


2.24  In (S) 27.7, the address of IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG shall be
deleted and replaced by the following new address:

     "Wilhelm-Botzkes-Strasse 1
     40474 Dusseldorf
     z. Hd. Frau Maria Bissinger, Telefax: 0211-8221-2957
                  Frau Petra Burggraf, Telefax: 0211-8221-2746"

2.25  Schedule 6 (Project Budget) will be replaced in its entirety by
Schedule 3 to this Supplemental Agreement.

2.26  In Schedule 7 (Project Schedule/Project Phases), the following
         ----------                                                 
changes shall be made in para. 1 ( First Project Phase: Planning Accepted), the
                                  ---------------------------------------       
number "300,000" shall be deleted and shall be replaced by "250,000" and "0.25
microns migrating to" shall be deleted in para. 6 (Project Phase: Technical
                                                   ------------------------
Completion) third paragraph, "75,000" shall be deleted and shall be replaced by
- ----------                                                                     
"62,500"
<PAGE>
 
2.27  In Schedule 9 ([Scheduled Project Phase] Technical Completion
         ----------                                                
Certificate (Obligors)), the following changes shall be made:

(i)  in para. 5 para. (i) "450" shall be deleted and shall be replaced by
     "375";

(ii) in the penultimate paragraph, "75,000" shall be deleted and shall be
     replaced by "62,500".

2.28  In Schedule 10 ([Scheduled Project Phase] Technical Completion
         -----------                                                
Certificate (Technical Advisor)), the following changes shall be made:

(i)  in para. 3 sub-para. (i) "450" shall be deleted and shall be replaced
     by "375";

(ii) in the penultimate paragraph of para. 3, "75,000" shall be deleted and
     shall be replaced by "62,500".

2.29  In Schedule 11 (Financial Completion (Obligors)), para 6, "DM 2,000
         -----------                                                     
(two thousand Deutsche Marks" shall be deleted and shall be replaced by "DM
2,900 (two thousand nine hundred Deutsche Marks)" and "75,000" shall be deleted
and shall be replaced by "62,500".

2.30  In Schedule 12 (Financial Completion Certificate (Banks' Auditor)),
         -----------                                                     
in para. 3 "DM 2,000 (two thousand Deutsche Marks)" shall be deleted and shall
be replaced by "DM 2,900 (two thousand nine hundred Deutsche Marks)" and
"75,000" shall be deleted and shall be replaced by "62,500".

2.31  Schedule 14 (Management Plan) shall be replaced in its entirety by
      -----------                                                       
Schedule 4 to this Supplemental Agreement.

2.32  In Schedule 16, to following change shall be made:
         -----------                                    

(i) footnote 1 shall be replaced by the following:

"1 Delete if not applicable; the Statement as to the Use and Source of Funds
           shall be furnished by the Project Manager within ten Banking Days and
           by the Auditor within thirty Banking Days after the end of a calendar
           quarter/Project Phase, provided that the Project Manager shall be
           entitled to submit an update of the Statement as to the Use and
           Source of Funds submitted by it no later than the time of delivery of
           the Auditor's Statement"; and

(ii) on the signatory page, "Ernst & Young Wirtschaftsprufungsgesellschaft
mbH" shall be replaced by "Hanscomb GmbH" and vice versa.

2.33  In Schedule 17, para 2, under the heading "Financial Covenants" the
following changes shall be made:

(i)  (S) 2.1 shall be deleted and replaced by the following:

"2.1 MINIMUM TANGIBLE NET WORTH
<PAGE>
 
The Tangible Net Worth shall not at the end of any Fiscal Year be less than the
amounts set out below:

<TABLE>     
<CAPTION> 
END OF A  FISCAL YEAR   AMOUNT IN DM MILLION

<S>                     <C>
27 December 1998                380
26 December 1999                700
31 December 2000                750
30 December 2001                800
29 December 2002                850
28 December 2003                875
26 December 2004                900
25 December 2005                925"
</TABLE>     

(ii) (S) 2.2 shall be deleted and shall be replaced by the following:

"2.2 MAXIMUM CAPITAL EXPENDITURE

Capital Expenditure shall not exceed within any Fiscal Year the amount set out
           below opposite that Fiscal Year by more than 125 %. The DM equivalent
           amount of the US$ amounts set out below which will apply in each
           Fiscal Year, as determined at the beginning of such Fiscal Year shall
           be based on the average of the spot exchange rate over the preceding
           two Fiscal Quarters, as shown on Reuters Screen page FXGF.


<TABLE>    
<CAPTION> 
FISCAL YEAR ENDING      AMOUNT IN US$ MILLION
 
<S>                     <C>
29 December 2002                51
28 December 2003                51
26 December 2004                76
31 December 2005               101" 
</TABLE>     

(iii) In (S) 2.3, "26 March 2006", "25 June 2006", "24 September 2006" and
     "31 December 2006" as well as the numbers corresponding to such periods
     under "Interest Cover Ratio" shall be deleted without replacement;

(iv) In (S) 2.4, "26 March 2006", "25 June 2006", "24 September 2006" and
     "31 December 2006" as well as the numbers corresponding to such periods
     under "Debt Service Cover Ratio" shall be deleted without replacement;

(v)  in (S) 2.5 "Maximum Inventory Turnover" the number "57" shall be
     deleted and replaced in each case by the number "58" and the Fiscal
     Quarters "26 March 2006", 25 June 2006", "24 September 2006" and "31
     December 2006" and each of the corresponding numbers in the column headed
     "Inventory Turnover" shall be deleted.



<PAGE>
 
2.34  Schedule 24 shall be supplemented by the inclusion of the Memorandum
of Understanding ("Gemeinsame Feststellungen") dated 19 February 1997, the
Guarantors' Amendment Decision of 12 December 1997 and the letter of C&L
Deutsche Revision AG dated 5 January 1998, each in the form of Schedule 11.

2.35  There shall be included the contents of Schedule 11 as a new Schedule
63 (Maximum 65/35 Guaranty Amount).

2.36  All references to Dresdner Bank AG in its capacity as Agent and its
address shall henceforth be changed to corresponding references to Dresdner Bank
Luxembourg S.A. and its address.


                                     (S) 3
                              CONDITION PRECEDENT
                                        
3.1   This Supplemental Agreement is subject to the condition precedent
that the following conditions are satisfied in full and the Agent has confirmed
to the Banks in writing that it has received the documents referred to in (S)(S)
3.1.1 to 3.1.16 inclusive. The form and content of the documents described in
(S)(S) 3.1.4, 3.1.5, 3.1.6, 3.1.7, 3.1.15 and 3.1.16 must be satisfactory to the
Agent. The documents referred to in (S)(S) 3.1.1 to 3.1.8 inclusive, whose
effectiveness may not be conditional (save for conditions relating to the
execution of this Supplemental Agreement) must be executed in legally binding
form:

3.1.1 Supplemental Agreement to the Sponsors' Support Agreement, in the
     form set out in Schedule 1;
                     ---------- 

3.1.2 Supplemental Agreement to the AMD Saxonia Wafer Purchase Agreement,
in the form set out in Schedule 2, together with a written consent from AMD
                       ----------                                          
Inc.;

3.1.3 Supplemental Agreement to the Sponsors' Loan Agreement, in the form
set out in Schedule 3;
           ---------- 

3.1.4 written confirmation by AMD Inc. relating to the continuing
enforceability of the AMD Inc. Guaranty dated 11 March 1997;

3.1.5 written confirmation by the Sponsors relating to the continuing
      enforceability of the Sponsors' Guaranty dated 11 March 1997;

3.1.6 the Fourth Amendment to the "AMD Inc. 1996 Bank Credit Agreement"
      within the meaning of the Sponsors' Support Agreement;

3.1.7 written confirmation of acceptance from AMD Inc. and AMD Saxonia
      relating to the Amendment Decision of the Guarantors dated 12 December
      1997;

3.1.8 Supplemental Agreement to the AMD Saxonia Hedging Agreement dated 11
      March 1997;
<PAGE>
 
3.1.9 an opinion addressed to the Board of Directors of AMD Inc. of a
recognized first class US financial advisory firm, confirming that the
transactions contemplated by the supplemental agreements to the Operative
Documents referred to above and the Operative Documents (as thereby amended) to
which AMD Inc. is a party are, taken as a whole, fair to AMD Inc. from a
financial point of view;

3.1.10  legal opinion of O'Melveny & Myers LLP counsel to AMD Inc., in the
form set out in Schedule 7 relating to the Senior Secured Note Indenture dated
as of August 1, 1996 referred to in (S) 15.1.13 of the Loan Agreement and the
Credit Agreement dated as of July 19, 1996 also referred to in that section;

3.1.11  legal opinion of O'Melveny & Myers LLP legal counsel to the AMD
Companies, in the form set out in Schedule 7;
                                  ---------- 

3.1.12  legal opinion of Norr, Stiefenhofer & Lutz legal counsel to the AMD
Companies, in the form set out in Schedule 8;
                                  ---------- 

3.1.13  legal opinion of Doser Amereller Noack / Baker & McKenzie legal
counsel to the Agent and the Banks, in the form set out in Schedule 9;
                                                           ---------- 

3.1.14  legal opinion of Feddersen Laule Scherzberg & Ohle Hansen Ewerwahn
legal counsel to the Agent and the Banks, in the form set out in Schedule 10;
                                                                 -------- -- 

3.1.15  Confirmation of the Insurance Advisor confirming in particular that
AMD Saxonia maintains insurances in accordance with (S) 17.8 of the Loan
Agreement and Schedule 22 of the Loan Agreement; and
              -----------                           

3.1.16  confirmation in writing from the Technical Advisor that the
Technical Advisor has received updated Plans and Specifications, the contents of
which are satisfactory to the Technical Advisor.


                                     (S) 4
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
                                        
4.1   AMD Saxonia hereby represents and warrants to the Banks as follows:

4.1.1 AMD Saxonia and AMD Holding have taken all necessary steps and have
obtained all necessary approvals to enter into legally binding obligations under
this Supplemental Agreement and the Supplemental Agreements to the Operative
Documents referred to in (S)(S) 3.1.1 to 3.1.8 inclusive and to exercise their
rights arising thereunder.

4.1.2 The execution of this Supplemental Agreement and the supplemental
agreements to the Operative Documents referred to in (S)(S) 3.1.1 to 3.1.8
inclusive by AMD Saxonia, AMD Holding and AMD Inc. and the compliance by each of
them of their obligations thereunder and the exercise by each of them of their
rights thereunder:
<PAGE>
 
           (i)  do not violate any provision of applicable law, any judgment or
any requirements or approvals of any authority or the like or contractual
obligations applicable to any of the AMD Companies;

           (ii) will not result in the termination or acceleration of any other
respective obligations of the AMD Companies;

          (iii) will not result in an obligation of any of them to create or
grant any security in favour of any third party, save as contemplated in the
Security Documents or in the Loan Agreement (as amended by this Supplemental
Agreement).

4.1.3 All Operative Documents entered into by the AMD Companies referred to
in (S)(S) 3.1.1 to 3.1.8 inclusive constitute the legally valid and binding
obligations of AMD Saxonia, AMD Holding and AMD Inc. respectively, enforceable
in accordance with their terms subject to the Opinion Reservations. For this
purpose, "Opinion Reservations" means limitations on the enforceability of legal
documents which are subject to German law or the law of the U.S.A. or one of its
states to the extent that in respect of these circumstances qualifications are
expressly made in the legal opinions which are to be furnished to the Agent
pursuant to (S)(S) 3.1.10 to 3.1.14 inclusive and which are to be approved by
the Agent.


                                     (S) 5
                                 MISCELLANEOUS
                                        
5.1   This Supplemental Agreement forms part of the Loan Agreement. All
references in the Loan Agreement and in the Operative Documents together with
statements relating hereto, apply in the same manner to this Supplemental
Agreement.

5.2  This Supplemental Agreement and all documents referred to herein shall be
deemed to be Operative Documents within the meaning of the Loan Agreement.


Frankfurt am Main _________ 1998



AMD SAXONY MANUFACTURING GMBH

__________________________________
Managing Directors   (Geschaftsfuhrer)



DRESDNER BANK AG
(as Security Agent and Bank)

_____________________________________
<PAGE>
 
Other Banks:


KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU

_____________________________________

_____________________________________
 

DG BANK DEUTSCHE GENOSSENSCHAFTSBANK

____________________________________

____________________________________
 


L-BANK, LANDESKREDITBANK BADEN-WURTTEMBERG

_____________________________________



SACHSEN LB LANDESBANK SACHSEN GIROZENTRALE

____________________________________

____________________________________



BAYERISCHE LANDESBANK GIROZENTRALE

____________________________________
 


HYPOBANK INTERNATIONAL S.A.

____________________________________
<PAGE>
 
____________________________________


BHF-BANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT

_____________________________________



COMMERZBANK AKTIENGESELLSCHAFT, Dresden Branch

_____________________________________
 
_____________________________________



DSL BANK DEUTSCHE SIEDLUNGS-UND LANDESRENTENBANK

_____________________________________

_____________________________________



HAMBURGISCHE LANDESBANK -GIROZENTRALE -

_____________________________________

______________________________________



IKB DEUTSCHE INDUSTRIEBANK AG

_____________________________________

_____________________________________
 


LANDESBANK RHEINLAND-PFALZ -GIROZENTRALE -

_____________________________________

_____________________________________
<PAGE>
 
LANDESGIROKASSE OFFENTLICHE BANK UND LANDESSPARKASSE

_____________________________________



ABN AMRO BANK (DEUTSCHLAND) AG, Frankfurt

____________________________________



CREDITANSTALT AG
(previously CREDITANSTALT-BANKVEREIN)

____________________________________

____________________________________



THE SUMITOMO BANK, LIMITED, Dusseldorf Branch

____________________________________

____________________________________



DRESDNER BANK LUXEMBOURG S.A.
(as Agent and Paying Agent)

____________________________________


                                        
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    Exhibit 23


               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the reference to our firm under the caption "Selected Financial
Data" and to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on
Form S-8 (No. 33-16095) pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1987
Restricted Stock Award Plan, in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-
39747) pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1991 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan, in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-10319, 33-
36596 and 33-46578) pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. 1982 and 1986
Stock Option Plans and the 1980 and 1986 Stock Appreciation Rights Plans, in the
Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-46577 and 33-55107) pertaining to
the Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 1992 Stock Incentive Plan, in the Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-00969) pertaining to the Advanced Micro Devices,
Inc. 1991 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and to the 1995 Stock Plan of NexGen,
Inc., in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-04797) pertaining to
the Advanced Micro Devices Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, in Post-Effective
Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-95888)
pertaining to the 1995 Stock Plan of NexGen, Inc. and the NexGen, Inc. 1987
Employee Stock Plan, in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to the Registration
Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-92688) pertaining to the 1995 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan of NexGen, Inc., in Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8
to the Registration Statement on Forms S-4 (No. 33-64911) pertaining to the
1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan of NexGen, Inc., the 1995 Stock Plan of
NexGen, Inc. and the NexGen, Inc. 1987 Employee Stock Plan, and in Post-
Effective Amendment No. 2 on Form S-3 to the Registration Statement on Form 
S-4 (No. 33-64911) pertaining to common stock issuable to certain
warrantholders, of our report dated January 9, 1998, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements and schedule of Advanced Micro Devices, Inc.
included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K/A) for the year ended December 28,
1997.



                                    /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


San Jose, California
April 16, 1998
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
