-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CytgwEFH3e/0/Z+HzkTqbJTkKdbNfbT24E6I9UeruvFpF/Yf5BpDGCm/Pxihn81E
 uSP7i8DjWTB0c2px++kgLg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950135-96-000224.txt : 19960129
<SEC-HEADER>0000950135-96-000224.hdr.sgml : 19960129
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-96-000224
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		6
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19951028
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960126
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ANALOG DEVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000006281
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				042348234
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07819
		FILM NUMBER:		96507478

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6173294700
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

  (MARK ONE)
    /X/      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                       OR

    / /    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]

        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                TO                 
                                       --------------    ---------------

                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-7819

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

              MASSACHUSETTS                                 04-2348234
     (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
     incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)

    ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY, NORWOOD, MA                         02062-9106
(Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

                                 (617) 329-4700
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (b) OF THE ACT:

COMMON STOCK $.16 2/3 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
      Title of Each Class              Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES /X/ NO

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was approximately $2,630,610,015 based on the closing price of
the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape reporting system
on December 29, 1995.

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each class of Common Stock:
114,677,500 shares of $.16 2/3 par value Common Stock as of December 29, 1995.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                           10-K PART
                        --------------------                           ---------
<S>                                                                    <C>
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual
   Meeting of Stockholders to be held March 12, 1996...............       III
</TABLE>
<PAGE>   2
                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's principal products include
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs"),
special-purpose linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SPLICs") and digital signal
processing ICs ("DSP ICs"). The Company also manufactures and markets devices
using assembled product technology.

Nearly all of the Company's products are components, which are typically
incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in a wide range of
equipment and systems for use in communications, computer, industrial,
instrumentation, military/aerospace and high-performance consumer electronics
applications. The Company sells its products worldwide; approximately 44% of the
Company's fiscal 1995 net sales were made to customers in North America, while
most of the balance was to customers in Western Europe and the Far East.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed,
acceleration, position and rotation angle, are inherently analog in nature,
consisting of continuously varying information. This information can be detected
and measured using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by
generating continuously varying voltages and currents. The signals from these
sensors are initially processed using analog methods, such as amplification,
filtering and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for input
to a microprocessor, which is used to manipulate, store or display the
information. In many cases the signals are further processed after conversion to
digital form using a technology called "digital signal processing." In addition,
digital signals are frequently converted to analog form to provide signals for
analog display, sound, or control functions. These manipulations and
transformations are collectively known as "real-world signal processing."

Significant advances in semiconductor technology over the past 10 to 15 years
have led to substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs
used for signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to
create VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) mixed-signal ICs that contain both
high-performance analog circuitry and large amounts of high-density digital
circuitry. The analog circuitry portion of the IC is used for manipulating real-
world signals while still in analog form and for converting analog signals into
digital form (or vice versa), and the digital portion is used for further
processing analog signals subsequent to their conversion to digital form. The
ICs resulting from these advances are used as components in equipment and
systems to achieve higher performance and more efficient signal processing.

COMPANY OVERVIEW AND STRATEGY

Analog believes it is one of the world's largest suppliers of SLIC products. The
Company's SLIC products are primarily high-performance, single-function devices.
The majority of the Company's SLIC revenue is attributable to data converters
(analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. SLICs are sold to a
very large customer base for a wide variety of applications, including
applications in the medical, engineering and scientific instruments market,
factory automation market and military/aerospace market.

Over the past five years, Analog has sought to balance its traditionally stable
SLIC business with growth opportunities for SPLICs and DSP ICs. Building upon
its expertise in linear IC technology, the Company has developed special-purpose
linear and mixed-signal ICs tailored to specific high-volume applications in
target markets. The Company also has extended its expertise in analog signal
processing and data conversion to develop DSP ICs. The Company's SPLICs and DSP
ICs address the emerging demand for high levels of performance in many
communications, computer and other high-volume applications. These products have
a high level of functionality (i.e., many functions on one chip) to satisfy
OEMs' requirements for an integrated solution with low cost per function.



                                        1
<PAGE>   3
To build upon its position as a leader in real-world signal processing, Analog
is pursuing strategies that include the following:

     -   Expand Traditional SLIC Business. The Company has taken a three-pronged
         approach to grow its SLIC business. First, it is seeking to solidify
         its leading position in the market for general purpose operational
         amplifiers and data converters, particularly in instrumentation and
         factory automation applications. Second, it is expanding its SLIC
         product portfolio to address other market segments, such as power
         management ICs for mobile phones and laptop computers and interface ICs
         for modems and printers. Third, the Company is developing SLICs for new
         high-volume applications in the communications, computer and consumer
         markets, including radio frequency ("RF") products for both wireless
         and broadband wired communication applications.

     -   Become a Major Supplier of General-Purpose DSP ICs. The Company's
         general-purpose DSP ICs consist of a family of programmable 16-bit
         fixed point and 32-bit floating point DSPs. These products offer
         processing speed, ease of programming and on-chip memory that allow
         system designers to cost effectively implement complex algorithms for
         signal processing applications. Analog believes that this product line
         will enable it to build a leading position in the general-purpose DSP
         market, principally for communications and computer applications.

     -   Pursue Growth Opportunities for System-Level Signal-Processing ICs. The
         Company is leveraging its expertise in both analog signal processing
         and data conversion to develop SPLICs and DSP ICs that provide
         system-level solutions for various growth applications, particularly in
         the communications and computer markets. The Company's system-level ICs
         often replace a combination of SLICs and general-purpose DSPs that are
         used by customers in their initial product designs. The Company offers
         system-level ICs for wireless communications applications such as
         digital mobile phones and base stations, and for computer applications
         such as audio enhancement in multimedia PCs.

     -   Leverage Core Technologies to Develop Innovative Products. The Company
         plans to continue applying its core technologies to develop a
         continuous flow of new products. In addition, the Company plans to
         continue to extend its core technologies to include new technologies,
         such as RF signal processing, which Analog has used primarily for
         wireless communications applications, and surface micromachining, which
         Analog has used to develop an accelerometer for automobile airbag
         systems. The Company intends to use its micromachining technology to
         address other applications outside the automotive industry.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications. Analog's products can be divided into
four classifications: SLICs; SPLICs and DSP ICs; hard disk drive ICs; and
assembled products.

A substantial portion of the Company's products are proprietary (available only
from Analog), while equivalents to most of its other products are available from
a limited number of other suppliers. Many of the Company's products tend to be
less price sensitive than other types of ICs, such as DRAM (Dynamic Random
Access Memory) ICs, primarily because there are fewer suppliers and because
OEMs, in many cases, after qualifying one manufacturer's high-performance linear
or mixed-signal IC for a specific application, are reluctant to switch
manufacturers due to the risk of degradation in the performance of their product
and/or the effort required to qualify additional suppliers.

The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of revenue
attributable to each of the Company's four product groups for the past three
fiscal years:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    PRODUCTS                               1995          1994          1993
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
    SLICs                                   64%           60%           60%
    SPLICs and DSP ICs                      24            20            20
    Hard Disk Drive ICs                      4             9             6
    Assembled Products                       8            11            14
</TABLE>



                                        2
<PAGE>   4
SLICs

Analog believes that it is one of the world's largest suppliers of SLIC
products. SLICs have been the foundation of the Company's business for more than
20 years. The Company's SLIC products are primarily high-performance, single-
function devices. The majority of the Company's SLIC revenue is attributable to
data converters (analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other
SLIC products offered by the Company include analog signal-processing devices
(such as analog multipliers), voltage references and comparators. The Company is
currently expanding its SLIC product offerings in areas where it traditionally
has had limited focus, principally interface circuits and power management ICs.
It is also expanding its SLIC product line to include a much larger number of
products designed to operate from single-supply 3- or 5-volt power sources to
better meet the needs of customers designing portable, battery- operated
equipment.

Analog's SLIC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems.
Analog's product portfolio includes several hundred SLICs, any one of which can
have as many as several hundred customers. SLICs typically have long product
life cycles. The Company's SLIC customers include both OEMs and customers who
build equipment for their own use. Historically, most SLICs have been purchased
by OEMs which serve the industrial and military/aerospace markets, but they are
now also being used for applications in commercial and consumer communications
equipment, personal computers (PCs) and peripheral equipment used with PCs and
computers.

By using standard, high-performance, readily available, off-the-shelf components
in their designs, Analog's customers can reduce the time required to develop and
bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing customized ICs,
SLICs usually provide the most cost-effective solutions for low- to
medium-volume applications. In addition, combinations of SLICs connected
together on a printed circuit board can provide functionality that cannot
currently be implemented with a single-chip device.

SPLICs AND DSP ICs

SPLICs and DSP ICs, which are collectively referred to as system-level ICs, are
multi-function devices that feature high levels of functional integration on a
single chip. Most SPLICs are mixed-signal devices (some of which include DSP
capability) and the balance are linear-only devices. SPLICs are almost always
designed to the requirements of a specific application, and the design process
often includes significant input from one or more potential key customers.
Market demand for SPLICs is driven by the benefits that result from combining a
number of functions on a single circuit as opposed to a combination of SLICs and
other ICs. These benefits include higher performance, lower cost per function,
smaller size, lower weight, fewer parts and decreased power consumption. These
products enable customers to achieve easier design-ins and faster time to
market. The Company believes that these benefits are becoming more important to
the Company's OEM customers as they increase their focus on high-performance,
small, lightweight products, many of which are battery powered.

The Company's general-purpose DSP ICs are designed to efficiently execute
specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing real-time,
real-world data. The Company's fixed-point and floating-point DSP ICs share a
common architecture and code compatibility, which allows system designers to
address cost, performance and time-to- market constraints. Analog's DSP ICs are
supported with specialized applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools,
which reduce product development cost and time to market.

The Company's DSP ICs include general-purpose DSPs and mixed-signal ICs that
include a DSP core along with data conversion and analog signal processing
circuitry. Demand for system-level ICs that incorporate both DSP functionality
and sophisticated mixed-signal capability tailored to specific applications is
increasing as customers continue to demand as much functionality as possible
from a single chip.

HARD DISK DRIVE ICs

ICs in this product category are used in hard disk drives that serve as rotating
mass storage devices in end products such as PCs, workstations and network
servers. These ICs process analog signals from a hard disk drive's read/write
head during read operations and position the read/write head over the desired
track on a hard disk drive platter during read and write operations.



                                        3
<PAGE>   5
ASSEMBLED PRODUCTS

The Company's assembled products consist of hybrids, printed-board modules and
multi-chip modules ("MCMs"). A hybrid consists of several chips and discrete
components mounted and wired together on a substrate. A printed-board module
consists of surface-mount components assembled on a small printed board that is
then encapsulated in a small plastic case. An MCM consists of several chips
assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides high
interconnect density at low cost.

Revenues from this product group have been declining since 1989, as hybrids have
been replaced in many new designs with smaller, lower-cost monolithic ICs that
offer higher levels of performance and integration. The Company plans to
continue marketing printed-board modules (primarily input/output modules used in
industrial control and factory automation applications). Orders for assembled
products overall showed a year-over-year increase in fiscal 1995 following
several years of decline as demand for recently designed MCMs offset declining
demand for older hybrid products.

MARKET AND APPLICATIONS

The Company's products are sold primarily to OEMs that incorporate them in
equipment, instruments and systems sold to end users for a wide variety of
applications, including communications equipment; computers and computer
peripherals; engineering, medical and scientific instruments; factory automation
equipment; military/aerospace equipment; high-end consumer electronics products;
and automotive. The Company's growth has been aided both by the expansion of
these markets and the increasing use of computer technology in the equipment and
systems sold in these markets.

For fiscal 1995, Analog's 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 25%
of the Company's net sales. The largest single customer represented less than 5%
of net sales. Sales of the Company's products are not highly seasonal.

Listed below are some of the characteristics of each of the Company's major
served markets:

COMMUNICATIONS -- includes data and fax modems, digital cellular telephones and
portable, wireless communications equipment and broadband wired applications.
The need for ever higher speed, coupled with more reliable, more
bandwidth-efficient communications is creating increasing demand for systems
that include both digital and analog signal processing capability. Demand for
signal processing ICs for this market is also being driven by the equipment
manufacturers' need for components that enable them to develop cost-effective
products that feature high performance, small size, low weight and minimal power
consumption.

COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS -- includes high-performance personal
computers, workstations and peripheral devices such as hard disk drives. The
Company currently supplies a variety of ICs used in this market for functions
such as graphic displays; interfaces between PCs and peripherals such as modems
and printers; power and battery management; and enhanced sound input and output
capability for business and entertainment applications.

INSTRUMENTATION -- includes manufacturers of engineering, medical and scientific
instruments. These products are usually designed using the highest performance
SLICs available, where production volumes generally do not warrant custom or
application-specific ICs.

FACTORY AUTOMATION -- includes data acquisition systems, automatic process
control systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test
equipment ("ATE"). These products generally require ICs that offer performance
greater than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have
production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations
of SLICs are therefore usually employed to achieve the necessary functionality,
except in ATE applications where the high level of electronic circuitry required
per tester has created opportunities for SPLICs.

MILITARY/AEROSPACE -- includes the military, commercial avionics and space
markets, all of which require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous
environmental and reliability specifications. Nearly all of the Company's SLICs
can be supplied in versions that meet appropriate military standards. In
addition, many products can be supplied to meet the standards required for
broadcast satellites and other commercial space applications. Most of the
Company's products sold into this market are derived from standard commercial
grade ICs, although the Company sometimes develops products expressly for
military/aerospace applications.



                                        4
<PAGE>   6
CONSUMER ELECTRONICS -- The emergence of high-performance consumer products,
such as compact disc players, digital VCRs, digital audio tape equipment and
digital camcorders, has led to the need for high-performance SPLICs with a high
level of functionality. Although the Company's revenue from this market is not
currently significant, the Company expects to supply ICs for sophisticated
products used by consumers for computing, communications and entertainment
applications, and believes that many of these applications will involve digital
signal processing.

AUTOMOTIVE -- Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices
for a wide range of applications. In response, Analog is developing products
specifically for the automotive market. The Company began shipments of its first
automotive product, a micromachined IC employed as a crash sensor in airbag
systems, in 1993. This product serves as an alternative to an electromechanical
sensor. The Company began shipments of this device to Delco in 1994 for use in
several 1995 model-year General Motors "W body" cars. It is also being used in,
or has been selected for, several other manufacturers' airbag systems.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The markets served by Analog are characterized by rapid technological changes
and advances. Accordingly, the Company makes substantial investments in the
design and development of new products and processes, and for significant
improvement of existing products and processes. Analog spent $134.3 million
during fiscal 1995 for the design, development and improvement of new and
existing products and processes, compared to $106.9 million during fiscal 1994
and $94.1 million during fiscal 1993.

In fiscal 1995, approximately half of the Company's R&D expenditures were
devoted to the design and development of SPLICs and DSP ICs, and the development
and improvement of processes used for these products. The Company believes that
it will be able to leverage its core technological competencies and leadership
position in linear and DSP technology to design and develop a wide range of
highly integrated, high-performance, cost-effective mixed-signal SPLICs, many of
which will include DSP capability. At the same time, however, the Company
expects to continue developing new and improved SLIC products to increase its
share of the SLIC market. In support of its research and development activities,
the Company employs several hundred engineers involved in product and process
development at several design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout
the world.

As of October 28, 1995, the Company owned 311 U.S. patents and had 210 patent
applications on file with the United States patent office. The Company believes
that while its patents may provide some advantage, its competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the knowledge, ability and experience of
the Company's personnel, new product development, market recognition and ongoing
marketing efforts, customer service and technical support.

SALES CHANNELS

Analog sells its products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 44% of fiscal 1995 revenue was derived from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 1995, the Company had 15 sales
offices in the United States, and its third-party distribution channel consisted
of nine national and regional third-party distributors and several independent
sales representatives with numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.

Approximately 28% of the Company's fiscal 1995 revenue was derived from sales to
customers in Europe; 17% to customers in Japan; and 11% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 1995, the Company had direct sales
offices in Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, The Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. The Company also had sales representatives and/or distributors
in approximately 27 countries outside North America, including countries where
the Company also has direct sales offices.

Approximately 42% of Analog's fiscal 1995 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. The Company's distributors typically maintain an inventory
of Analog products. Some of these distributors also sell products competitive
with the Company's products, including those for which the Company is an
alternate source. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements which
provide protection to the distributors for their inventory of Company products
against price reductions and products that are slow-moving or have been
discontinued by the Company. These agreements generally contain a provision for
the return of the products to the Company in the event the relationship with the
distributor is terminated.



                                        5
<PAGE>   7
Sales to North American distributors are not recognized until the products are
resold by distributors to their customers. Sales made to distributors outside
North America are recognized upon shipment to the distributor, but the Company
provides specific reserves for possible returns and allowances.

The Company's worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars;
and participation in trade shows. The Company publishes and distributes
full-length databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical
handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. The Company also
maintains a staff of application engineers who aid customers in incorporating
Analog's products into their products during their product development cycles.

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the
wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into packages and
electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used
to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals
(including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and plastic used
for plastic packaging.

In addition to using industry-standard bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication
processes, Analog employs a number of Company-developed proprietary processes
specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear and
mixed-signal SLICs and SPLICs.

Analog's IC products are fabricated both at the Company's production facilities
and by third-party wafer fabricators. Assuming that the Company can continue to
maintain favorable relationships with its third-party wafer fabricators, it
intends to continue using such suppliers for meeting most of its needs for
wafers that can be fabricated using industry- standard digital processes. The   
Company intends to rely primarily on its own facilities for production of
wafers fabricated with linear and mixed-signal processes. The Company operates
wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts; Santa Clara,
California; and Limerick, Ireland for production of linear and mixed-signal
devices. The Company also operates assembly and test facilities located in the
United States, Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company uses two
principal foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company and Chartered
Semiconductor Corporation for the production of digital and VLSI mixed-signal
devices.

Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together several
integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in the
Company's hybrids are manufactured by the Company and some are purchased from
outside suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and
systems consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of the
Company's assembled products are assembled and tested within the Company's U.S.
manufacturing facilities, while others are assembled and tested at Company-owned
facilities outside the United States or by subcontractors, principally in the
Far East.

As a result of strong demand for its products, the Company was manufacturing    
capacity constrained throughout most of fiscal 1995. While the Company is
planning in fiscal 1996 to increase substantially its manufacturing capacity
through both expansion of its production facilities and increased access to
third-party wafer foundries, there can be no assurance that the Company will
complete the expansion of its production facilities or secure increased access
to third-party foundries in a timely manner, that the Company will not
encounter unanticipated production problems at either its own facilities or at
third-party foundries or that the increased capacity will be sufficient to
satisfy demand for its products.


                                       6
<PAGE>   8
BACKLOG

Backlog at the end of fiscal year 1995 was approximately $286.8 million; it was
approximately $152.8 million at the end of the fiscal year 1994. The Company
defines its backlog at any point in time as those orders for which customers
have requested shipment within the next 13 weeks. The quantities of the
Company's products to be delivered and their delivery schedules, as covered by
customer purchase orders, are frequently revised by customers to reflect changes
in their needs. As is customary in the semiconductor industry, the Company may
allow such orders to be canceled or deliveries delayed by the customer without
significant penalty. In addition, the Company's backlog includes its orders from
domestic distributors as to which revenues are not recognized until the products
are sold by the distributors. Accordingly, the Company believes that its backlog
at any time should not be used as a measure of future revenues.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

The Company estimates that approximately 13% of its total worldwide revenue is
attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government contractors and
subcontractors. Analog's government contract-related business is predominantly
in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-priced subcontracts. All such contracts
and subcontracts contain standard provisions related to termination at the
election of the United States government. The Company expects that the U.S.
government's intention to further reduce U.S. military spending will result in a
continuing gradual reduction in the percentage of the Company's total sales
going to governmental users and contractors.

COMPETITION

Analog competes with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that
are highly competitive. The Company believes it is one of the largest suppliers
of high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components. These
types of products fall into both the SLIC and SPLIC product categories.
Competitors for the Company's linear and mixed-signal products include Brooktree
Corp., Burr-Brown Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Exar Corp., Harris Corp., Linear
Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corp.,
Sierra Semiconductor Corp., Siliconix Inc., Silicon Systems (a subsidiary of TDK
Corp), Texas Instruments, Inc. and others.

Sales of DSP ICs represent a growing percentage of the Company's total sales.
Analog's competitors for DSP ICs include AT&T, Integrated Device Technology,
Inc., Motorola Semiconductor Products and Texas Instruments, Inc.

Many other companies offer components that compete with Analog's products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than Analog's. Also, some formerly independent competitors
have been purchased by larger companies (which in some cases may be viewed as a
means by which the acquiring company gains in-house capability). However, to the
Company's knowledge, no manufacturer competes with Analog across all of the
product types offered by the Company in its signal-processing components product
line.

Analog believes that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world
signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including product
price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products,
customer service and technical support. Analog believes its aggressive technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by its
commitment to strong customer service and technical support, will allow the
Company to continue to compete successfully in its chosen markets against both
foreign and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

ENVIRONMENT

Analog's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the
Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.



                                       7
<PAGE>   9
EMPLOYEES

As of October 28, 1995, the Company employed approximately 6,000 persons. The
Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of its
key technical and senior management personnel, and on its ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing products and the development of new products and processes. The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that
relations with its employees are good.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Analog has direct sales offices in 16 countries outside the United States. For
fiscal 1995, Analog's international sales accounted for approximately 56% of
total sales, the majority of which were made through its direct international
sales offices while the balance, approximately 40% of the total, were made
through distributors. In addition, the Company has manufacturing facilities in
Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company also has arrangements with
subcontractors, principally in the Far East, for the wafer fabrication, assembly
and testing of certain products.



                                       8
<PAGE>   10
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.
Manufacturing and other operations are carried on in several locations
worldwide. The following tables provide certain information as to the Company's
principal general offices and manufacturing facilities:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  PLANT LOCATION
     OWNED:                                        USE                                       FLOOR SPACE
     ------                                        ---                                       -----------
<S>                  <C>                                                                 <C>            
Wilmington,          Wafer fabrication, components assembly and testing, engineering     245,200 sq. ft.
Massachusetts        and administrative offices

Wilmington,          Engineering, marketing and administrative offices                   108,000 sq. ft.
Massachusetts

Wilmington,          Components engineering, marketing and administrative offices         67,200 sq. ft.
Massachusetts

Limerick,            Wafer fabrication, components assembly and testing, engineering     286,200 sq. ft.
Ireland              and administrative offices

Greensboro,          Components and board assembly and testing, engineering and          100,000 sq. ft.
North Carolina       administrative offices

Manila, Philippines  Components assembly and testing, engineering and administrative      85,000 sq. ft.
                     offices
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   PRINCIPAL                                                                                 LEASE
   PROPERTIES                        USE                                FLOOR SPACE        EXPIRATION          RENEWALS
     LEASED                          ---                                -----------        ----------          --------
     ------                                                                               (FISCAL YEAR)
                                                                               
              
<S>                <C>                                                 <C>                <C>                  <C>        
Norwood,           Corporate headquarters, engineering,                135,000 sq. ft.        2007             3, five-yr.
Massachusetts (1)  components assembly and sales and marketing                                                 periods
                   offices

Westwood,          Components and subsystems assembly and              100,400 sq. ft.        1996             2, ten-yr.
Massachusetts (2)  testing, engineering and administrative offices                                             periods

Santa Clara,       Wafer fabrication, components assembly and           72,800 sq. ft.        2000             2, five-yr.
California         testing, engineering and administrative offices                                             periods

Santa Clara,       Administrative offices and engineering               43,500 sq. ft.        2000             2, five-yr.
California                                                                                                     periods

Sunnyvale,         Wafer fabrication                                    27,000 sq. ft.        2000             3, five-yr.
California                                                                                                     periods

Taipei,            Components testing, engineering and                  45,700 sq. ft.        1997             3 to 5 yr.
Taiwan             administrative offices                                                                      option to
                                                                                                               extend
</TABLE>

(1)  See Note 6 - "Commitments and Contingencies" in the Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements for information regarding contingent liabilities
     related to the lease of the Norwood, Massachusetts property.
(2)  The Westwood, Massachusetts facility is subject to a 25-year capital lease
     with an option to purchase.



                                       9
<PAGE>   11
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES -- (CONTINUED)

In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the previous table, 
the Company also leases sales offices and other premises at 25 locations in the
United States and 25 locations overseas under operating lease agreements.
These leases expire at various dates through the year 2010. The Company
anticipates no difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of its manufacturing,
office or sales facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or
through month-to-month occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent
facilities. See Note 5 - "Lease Commitments" in the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements for information concerning the Company's obligations under
all operating and capital leases.




                                       10
<PAGE>   12
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS LITIGATION

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents is also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. If it is
determined that the Company has violated the cease and desist order, the ITC
could seek to impose penalties of up to $100,000 per day of violation from the
date of the cease and desist order (February 1992) or a sum equal to twice the
value of the goods determined to be sold in violation of the order. In addition,
in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in Massachusetts
alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of the Company's
patents.

Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both Texas lawsuits and the
Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a royalty-free cross license of
certain of the Company's and TI's patents. On April 25, 1995, the Company filed
with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC enforcement proceeding on the grounds
that further action by the ITC is unnecessary in light of the Company's
settlement with TI. On May 8 1995, an Administrative Law Judge issued a
recommended determination to the ITC to grant the Company's motion to terminate
the ITC proceeding. The investigative office of the ITC has opposed the motion,
claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's settlement with TI, the Company's
alleged violation of the ITC's cease and desist order warrants the imposition of
substantial penalties. The Company's motion is pending before the ITC.

MAXIM LITIGATION

The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Maxim Integrated Products,
Inc. ("Maxim") in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California seeking an injunction against, and claiming damages for, alleged
antitrust violations and unfair competition in connection with distribution
arrangements between the Company and certain distributors. Maxim alleged that
certain distributors ceased doing business with Maxim as a result of the
distribution arrangements between the distributors and the Company, resulting in
improper restrictions to Maxim's access to channels by which it distributes its
products. Maxim asserted actual and consequential damages in the amount of $14.1
million and claimed restitution and punitive damages in an unspecified amount.
Under applicable law, Maxim would receive three times the amount of any actual
damages suffered as a result of any antitrust violation. On September 7, 1994,
Maxim's claim was dismissed for lack of evidence. Maxim has appealed this ruling
and oral argument of the appeal was held in January 1996.

For additional information concerning the above-described lawsuits and the
potential impact of such suits upon the Company's financial condition and
results of operations, see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

OTHER

In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, personal injury, environmental matters and product liability. Such
litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against the Company by
Sextant Avionique, S.A. ("Sextant") in Paris, France, which claims that the
Company's accelerometer infringes certain Sextant patents and seeks to enjoin   
such infringement. While there can be no assurance that the Company will 
prevail in all of these matters, the Company does not believe that these        
matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or consolidated results of operations. However, an adverse
resolution could have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results
of operations in the quarter in which these matters are resolved.


                                       11

<PAGE>   13
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
last quarter of the fiscal year ended October 28, 1995.



                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY


The following table sets forth (i) the name and age of each present executive
officer of the Company; (ii) the position(s) presently held by each person
named; and (iii) the principal occupations held by each person named for at
least the past five years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER      AGE            POSITION                         BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
   -----------------      ---            --------                         -------------------
<S>                       <C>   <C>                            <C>                                           
Ray Stata .............    61   Chairman of the Board and      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                Chief Executive Officer        Officer since 1973; President from 1971 to
                                                               November 1991.

Jerald G. Fishman .....    50   President, Chief Operating     President, Chief Operating Officer and
                                Officer and Director           Director since November 1991; Executive
                                                               Vice President from 1988 to November 1991;
                                                               Group Vice President - Components from 1982
                                                               to 1988.

William A. Martin .....    36   Treasurer                      Treasurer since March 1993; Assistant
                                                               Treasurer from October 1991 to March
                                                               1993; Manager of Treasury Finance from
                                                               March 1987 to October 1991; Manager of
                                                               International Treasury from October 1985 to
                                                               March 1987.

Brian P. McAloon ......    45   Vice President, Sales          Vice President, Sales since May 1992; Vice
                                                               President, Sales and Marketing - Europe
                                                               and Southeast Asia from 1990 to 1992;
                                                               General Manager, Analog Devices, B.V. -
                                                               Limerick, Ireland from 1987 to 1990.

Joseph E. McDonough ...    48   Vice President, Finance and    Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                                Chief Financial Officer        Officer since November 1991; Vice
                                                               President since 1988 and Treasurer from
                                                               1985 to March 1993; Director of Taxes from
                                                               1983 to 1985.
</TABLE>

There is no family relationship among the named officers.



                                                    12
<PAGE>   14
                                                  PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol ADI. The table below sets forth the high and low prices of the Common
Stock during the two most recent fiscal years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  1995                      1994
                            -----------------        -----------------
       PERIOD                HIGH       LOW           HIGH       LOW
       ------                ----       ---           ----       ---
<S>                         <C>        <C>           <C>        <C>   
   First Quarter            $16.25     $13.63        $11.63     $ 8.63
   Second Quarter           $18.75     $13.38        $13.88     $10.88
   Third Quarter            $25.25     $17.13        $13.88     $10.88
   Fourth Quarter           $26.25     $19.88        $16.38     $11.75
</TABLE>
                                            
On November 28, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend
distributed on January 3, 1996 to stockholders of record December 12, 1995. All
stock prices in the table above have been restated to reflect the split.

The Company's $60,000,000 credit agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash
dividend payments declared or made subsequent to January 30, 1993 to an amount
not exceeding $29,734,000 plus 50% of the consolidated net income of the Company
for the period from January 31, 1993 through the end of the Company's then most
recent fiscal quarter. At October 28, 1995 this amount was equal to
$144,782,000. Although prior credit agreements may not have restricted the
payment of dividends, the Company has never paid any cash dividends on its
Common Stock.

The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's Common Stock at
December 29, 1995 was 4,429. This number does not include shareholders for whom
shares are held in a "nominee" or "street" name.


ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(thousands except per share amounts)        1995             1994             1993             1992             1991
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>                <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>     
Statement of Operations data:
    Net sales ...............         $  941,546         $773,474         $666,319         $567,315         $537,738
    Net income ..............            119,270           74,496           44,457           14,935            8,203
    Net income per
      share (1) .............               1.00              .64              .39              .14              .08

Balance Sheet data:
    Total assets ............         $1,001,648         $815,871         $678,492         $561,867         $503,317
    Long-term obligations ...             80,000           80,061          100,297           70,632           36,819
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1) All references to per share amounts have been restated to reflect the
    three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend
    distributed on January 3, 1996 to stockholders of record December 12, 1995.



                                       13
<PAGE>   15
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FISCAL 1995 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1994

The Company reported net sales of $941.5 million in fiscal 1995, up $168 million
or 22% from net sales of $773.5 million in fiscal 1994. Fiscal year 1995 sales
growth was attributable to significant increases in sales volumes of both the
Company's standard linear IC and system-level IC products as worldwide demand
for precision integrated circuit products accelerated throughout fiscal 1995,
exceeding the Company's expectations and capacity. Demand for the Company's ICs
was strong both in its core industrial and instrumentation markets and in
high-growth applications in the communications, computer and portable, wireless
equipment markets. Total IC sales, representing both standard linear and
system-level ICs, constituted approximately 92% of total sales in fiscal 1995,
continuing the long-term trend of IC sales becoming a larger portion of the
Company's revenues.

Sales of the Company's standard linear IC products, which make up the largest
and most profitable part of the Company's business, increased approximately 
$137 million or nearly 30% in fiscal 1995. Standard linear IC sales also
increased as a percentage of total sales, accounting for 64% of total sales in
fiscal 1995 compared to 60% in fiscal 1994. The growth in sales of standard
linear ICs was primarily driven by increased penetration of the Company's data
converter and amplifier products in high-performance instrumentation and
factory automation applications and greater use of standard linear IC products
in new high-volume applications in the communications, computer and consumer
markets including digital cellular handsets and base stations, video
applications and imaging applications. As in fiscal 1994, the distributor       
channel continued to have a positive effect on the Company's standard linear IC
product line in fiscal 1995; distribution has become the fastest growing
channel for these products.

Sales of system-level ICs, excluding those used in hard disk drives, increased
approximately $70 million or 46% in fiscal 1995, as the Company achieved
substantial bookings and revenue gains in its general-purpose digital signal
processing products and mixed-signal ICs for application-specific
system-on-a-chip solutions. The strongest end user market growth for the
Company's system-level IC products was experienced in wireless communications
applications, including digital mobile phones and base stations, and computer
applications, including audio enhancement in multimedia PCs. As a percentage of
total sales, system-level IC products, with the exception of hard disk drive
products, increased to 24% of total sales compared to 20% in fiscal 1994. Sales
of hard disk drive products in fiscal 1995 declined $37 million or 53% compared
to fiscal 1994 due to a combination of scarcity of wafers and the rapid movement
of this market to digital PRML channels.

Sales of the Company's assembled products decreased approximately $2.5 million
or 3% from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995 and as a percentage of total sales
decreased from 11% to 8% over this same period. This sales decrease was
comparatively less than in prior years as sales demand for newer multi-chip
modules for the communications market began to offset the decline in older
military hybrids.

In fiscal 1995, sales to North American customers increased $68.3 million or 20%
over fiscal 1994 to $412.2 million. Sales to customers outside North America,
primarily Europe, Japan and Southeast Asia, increased $99.7 million or 23% to
$529.3 million. The distributor channel was a major contributor to sales growth
in North America as well as in Europe and Japan especially for standard linear
IC products. North American sales through distribution increased approximately
40% over the prior year while worldwide sales through distribution increased
approximately 55% from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995. On a worldwide basis, sales
through distribution accounted for approximately 42% of total sales in fiscal
1995 compared to 33% in fiscal 1994. Sales to European customers increased $66.4
million or 34% to $264 million, with much of this growth resulting from the
Company's increased penetration of applications in the communications market,
particularly in handsets and basestations used in the GSM (Global System for
Mobile Communications) digital cellular telephone system now widely deployed in
Western Europe. Sales in Japan increased $32.1 million or 24% to $165.1 million
largely as a result of increased sales of standard linear IC products for 
factory automation and other industrial market applications. A weaker average 
U.S. dollar exchange rate also contributed to some of the improvement in 
European and Japanese sales. Sales to customers in Southeast Asia of $100 
million were essentially flat compared to fiscal 1994 due to the significant 
decline in hard disk drive sales. As a percentage of total



                                       14
<PAGE>   16
sales, North American and international sales accounted for 44% and 56%,
respectively, unchanged from the comparable percentages in fiscal 1994.

As a result of strong demand for its products, the Company was manufacturing
capacity constrained throughout most of fiscal 1995.  The Company is pursuing a
multi-faceted manufacturing capacity expansion program to substantially
increase the number of fabricated wafers available to it in fiscal 1996 and
beyond. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" below for a discussion of the
Company's efforts to address its capacity issues.

Gross margin increased to 50.7% of sales in fiscal 1995 compared to 49.0% of
sales in fiscal 1994. The increase in gross margin was principally due to a
higher proportion of standard linear IC products in the mix of products sold,
which generally have higher gross margins than the Company's system-level IC
products. The improvement in gross margin in fiscal 1995 was also attributable
to greater capacity utilization, resulting in the absorption of fixed
manufacturing costs over increased production volumes.

Research and development expenses increased approximately 26% in fiscal 1995 to
$134.3 million or 14.3% of sales. This increase was mainly due to higher
spending in the development of new products and technologies targeted for the
communications, computer and automotive markets, including initiatives in
general-purpose digital signal processing such as the Company's SHARC product
family, system-level ICs for computer audio and wireless communications
applications, RF signal processing, surface micromachining technology,
accelerometer products and continued development of innovative SLIC products
and processes. The increase in R&D expenditures in fiscal 1995 was also
attributable to increased staffing of design engineering personnel and the
start up of two new design centers. The Company believes that technical
leadership in the semiconductor industry is critical to its future success and
is committed to maintaining a high level of research and development effort.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) expense growth in fiscal
1995 was held to 8.6%, as SMG&A increased from $170.3 million in fiscal 1994 to
$184.9 million in fiscal 1995. SMG&A expenses continued to decline as a
percentage of sales to 19.6% in fiscal 1995 compared to 22.0% in fiscal 1994
and 23.8% in fiscal 1993, consistent with the Company's goal of constraining
SMG&A spending growth to a rate significantly below sales growth. The increase
in SMG&A expenses in absolute dollars was primarily related to higher incentive
expenses associated with improved revenue and profitability levels, and greater
product advertising and related promotional costs in support of the Company's
product lines and customer base.

Operating income grew 55% to 16.8% of sales compared to 13.2% of sales in
fiscal 1994. This performance gain reflected the combination of accelerated
demand for the Company's products, improved gross margin and continuing
commitment to growing expenses more slowly than sales.

Nonoperating expenses decreased $6.6 million in fiscal 1995 due primarily to a
$2.9 million decrease in interest expense and a $2.9 million increase in
interest income. The reduction in interest expense from fiscal 1994 to fiscal
1995 was due in large part to the maturity of a $20 million term loan early in
the first quarter of fiscal 1995 while the increase in interest income over
this same period was attributable to a higher average level of cash investments
and a higher weighted average investment rate in fiscal 1995 versus fiscal
1994. Interest expense in fiscal 1996 will increase from fiscal 1995 as a
result of the issuance of $230,000,000 of 3- 1/2% Convertible Subordinated
Notes in December 1995.

The effective income tax rate increased to 25.2% in fiscal 1995 from 23.1% in
fiscal 1994 due to earnings growth in higher tax rate jurisdictions including
the U.S. The Company maintains a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
which was $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994, based on
management's assessment that realization of such deferred tax assets was not
assured for book and tax capital losses and book basis foreign tax credits.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses yielded a 60% rise in net income to $119.3 million or 12.7% of sales
compared to $74.5 million or 9.6% of sales. Earnings per share in fiscal 1995
grew 56% to $1.00 from $0.64 in fiscal 1994.


                                       15
<PAGE>   17
The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which will require adoption in
fiscal 1997. The Company is in the process of determining the effect of
adoption of these statements on its consolidated financial statements and
related disclosures.

The impact of inflation on the Company's business during the past three years
has not been significant.

FISCAL 1994 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1993

Net sales of $773.5 million for fiscal 1994 increased 16% from net sales of
$666.3 million for fiscal 1993. The sales increase was due principally to
higher sales volumes of both standard linear IC and system-level IC products
which together grew approximately 20% year-over-year to comprise approximately
89% of total sales for fiscal 1994.

Standard linear IC sales rose approximately $66.5 million or approximately 17%
to $467.5 million in fiscal 1994. This increase was primarily due to the
combination of increased penetration of the distribution channel coupled with
well accepted new product offerings.

Sales of system-level IC products grew approximately $49.0 million or
approximately 28% to $224.0 million in fiscal 1994. This growth was
attributable largely to increased demand for applications in personal computers
and wireless communications products, and the Company's broader participation
in these growing markets.

Sales of assembled products declined approximately 9% from fiscal 1993 to
fiscal 1994 and as a percentage of total sales decreased from 14% to 11% over
the same period.

Sales to North American customers increased 18% over fiscal 1993 levels to
$343.9 million with much of this increase coming from the distributor channel
as sales through North American distributors increased 36% from the prior year.
Sales to international customers grew 15% led by sales increases of
approximately 27% and 35% in Japan and Southeast Asia, respectively. Sales
growth in Japan was mainly attributable to increased demand for standard linear
IC products, aided in part by the translation of yen-denominated sales to a
weaker average U.S. dollar. The sales increase in Southeast Asia represented
continued strength in sales of personal computer products. European sales of
$197.9 million for fiscal 1994 were flat compared to the prior year due to
weaker European industrial economies as compared to fiscal 1993. Sales growth
in Europe resumed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1994, growing again after
weakness in the first nine months of the year as the European economy showed
improvement, particularly Germany. As a percentage of total net sales, North
American and international sales remained at 44% and 56%, respectively, which
were comparable to fiscal 1993.

Gross margin improved to 49.0% of sales for fiscal 1994 compared to 47.3% for
fiscal 1993. This increase resulted principally from a significant improvement
in gross margin for system-level IC products as variable manufacturing costs
declined and fixed costs were allocated over greater production volumes. Gross
margin for the Company's standard linear IC products remained at a high level
and gross margin on all IC products, which include both standard linear and
system-level ICs, was approximately 50% of sales.

R&D expenses for fiscal 1994 increased 13.6% from fiscal 1993 as the Company
continued to invest in new product development. As a percentage of sales, R&D
expenses were 13.8% in fiscal 1994 compared to 14.1% in fiscal 1993.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) expenses grew 7.4%
compared to fiscal 1993, increasing at a lower rate than sales. As a result,
SMG&A as a percentage of sales decreased to 22.0% for fiscal 1994 from 23.8%
for fiscal 1993. The increase in SMG&A expenses related mostly to increased
strategic advertising and marketing expenses associated with many new product
launches and additional incentive expense associated with the Company's
improved performance.


                                       16
<PAGE>   18
In total, operating expenses were reduced to 35.8% of sales, down from 37.9% in
fiscal 1993, consistent with the Company's emphasis on maintaining tight
control over all costs in order to gain better operating leverage on increases
in revenues.

Operating income reached 13.2% of sales for fiscal 1994, an increase of nearly
four percentage points from 9.4% of sales for fiscal 1993. This performance
gain reflected the higher sales level, improvement in gross margin as a
percentage of sales and slower rate of expense growth versus sales.

Nonoperating expenses decreased $2.3 million, benefiting from increased
interest income on a higher level of invested cash as net interest expense was
reduced from $5.8 million in fiscal 1993 to $2.0 million in fiscal 1994.

The effective income tax rate increased to 23% in fiscal 1994 from 20% in
fiscal 1993 due to a shift in the mix of worldwide income.  In the first
quarter of fiscal 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("FAS 109"). The impact of
adopting FAS 109 was not material to the Company's consolidated financial
statements. A deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $14.3 million was
established at October 31, 1993 based on management's assessment that
realization of such deferred tax assets was not assured for book and tax
capital losses, book basis foreign tax credits, and general business tax
credits.  The net change in the valuation allowance for the year ended October 
29, 1994 was a decrease of $4.3 million primarily from the utilization of 
general business tax credits.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses resulted in a 68% rise in net income to $74.5 million or 9.6% of sales
in fiscal 1994 compared to $44.5 million or 6.7% of sales in fiscal 1993.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At October 28, 1995, the Company had $151.1 million of cash and cash
equivalents and short-term investments compared to $181.8 million at October
29, 1994. The Company's operating activities generated net cash of $210.3
million, or 22.3% of sales, and $186.6 million, or 24.1% of sales, in fiscal
1995 and fiscal 1994, respectively. Investing activities used $238.7 million in
fiscal 1995 and $166.8 million in fiscal 1994 while financing activities used
$10.9 million in fiscal 1995 and generated $10.0 million in fiscal 1994.
Working capital decreased to $271.6 million at the end of fiscal 1995 from
$299.3 million at the end of fiscal 1994. This decrease was primarily due to
lower cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments which were used in part
to fund investing activities in fiscal 1995, and secondarily to increased
accounts payable and accrued liabilities associated with an expanded scale of
operations.

The Company's primary source of funds in fiscal years 1995 and 1994 was net
cash generated by operations. The $23.7 million increase in operating cash
flows from $186.6 million in fiscal 1994 to $210.3 million fiscal 1995 was
largely attributable to higher net income and an increase in accounts payable
and accrued liabilities, changes which were offset in large part by growth in
inventories and accounts receivable. The noncash effect of depreciation and
amortization expense was $64.1 million and $61.3 million in fiscal 1995 and
fiscal 1994, respectively. As a result of internal capacity expansion,
depreciation expense is expected to be higher in fiscal 1996 as these additions
begin to ramp up.

Accounts receivable of $181.3 million at the end of fiscal 1995 increased $19.0
million or 11.7% from $162.3 million at the end of fiscal 1994. This increase
compared favorably to the 27% increase in fourth quarter sales between the two
years as the rise in sales was more than offset by improved collection of
receivables. As a percentage of annualized fourth quarter sales, accounts
receivable was reduced to 17.6% at the end of fiscal 1995 compared to 20.0% at
the end of fiscal 1994.

Inventories rose $13.2 million or 10.1% over the prior year to $144.0 million
at the end of fiscal 1995. This increase was primarily due to a build in
inventory levels needed to service increasing sales volumes. Year-end
inventories as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter sales decreased from
16.1% in fiscal 1994 to 14.0% in fiscal 1995. In fiscal 1996, as additional
manufacturing capacity becomes available, the Company intends to increase
inventory levels in order to improve customer response times.


                                       17
<PAGE>   19
Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $39.6 million or 29.4%
compared to the balance at the end of fiscal 1994 due principally to increased
expense activity related to the higher revenue level and increased capital
expenditures in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995 when compared to the
year-earlier period. The increase in income taxes payable of 70.2% or $20.7
million was primarily attributable to increased profitability in fiscal 1995 as
compared to fiscal 1994.

The Company's principal investment activities during fiscal 1995 were in
support of its manufacturing capacity expansion programs and included capital
expenditures of $212.7 million and an investment of $14.0 million in a wafer
fabrication company in Singapore.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 1995 were significantly higher than in fiscal
1994 with a significant portion of these expenditures related to the
construction of the Company's first six-inch wafer fabrication module which was
completed in fiscal 1995 at the Company's Limerick, Ireland manufacturing site.
This module is now undergoing test and qualification and is expected to begin
supplying production wafers before the end of the first half of fiscal 1996. It
will be used initially to fabricate mixed-signal VLSI products on a 0.6 micron
digital CMOS process. The capital expenditures and start-up costs associated
with this expansion will be supported in part by grants of up to 10.1 million
Irish Pounds (approximately $16.4 million at October 28, 1995) from the
Industrial Development Authority  ("IDA") of Ireland. As of October 28, 1995,
the Company had not received any grant monies under this agreement.

During fiscal 1995, the Company also began upgrading its existing Wilmington,
Massachusetts wafer fabrication facility from four- inch to six-inch wafer
production. This additional capacity, which will also become available in the
latter half of fiscal 1996, will be used primarily for high-speed linear
products. In addition, the Company purchased an existing six-inch wafer
fabrication module located close to its Santa Clara, California site. This
facility is being upgraded and modernized to produce advanced linear technology
ICs, and is expected to go into production in the latter half of fiscal 1996.
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995, the Company also completed construction of
a new engineering, marketing and administrative facility in Wilmington,
Massachusetts and commenced an expansion of the Company's test and back end
facilities in the Philippines.

In fiscal 1995, the Company entered into a supply agreement with its primary
wafer foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ("TSMC"). Under
this agreement, the Company will make a series of advance payments to TSMC
aggregating $22.4 million, payable over a three-year period, in order to secure
access to a minimum level of wafer capacity over the period from 1996 to 1999.
The first of such payments pursuant to this agreement was made in June 1995 and
remaining payments are due in June of each year through 1998. The advance
payments will be repaid to the Company each year in the form of credits against
the prices of wafers purchased by the Company when such wafer purchases exceed
a defined minimum.

In fiscal 1995, the Company made an equity investment of $14.0 million in
Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM") in Singapore and
invested an additional $6.0 million in January 1996, in exchange for a less
than 5% ownership interest. This investment is structured to provide access to
CSM's new eight-inch 0.5 micron wafer fabrication facility through wafer supply
and pricing commitments beginning in 1996. The investment in CSM is classified 
in the balance sheet line item, "Deferred Charges and Other Assets."

In January 1996, the Company entered into an additional agreement with CSM,
whereby the Company will provide a total deposit of approximately $20.0 million
to be paid in several installments in 1996 and 1997. Under the terms of this
agreement, the deposit will guarantee access to certain quantities of
sub-micron wafers through fiscal 2000. If the Company does not purchase the
minimum quantities under the agreement, the deposit will be forfeited for the
value of the wafer shortfall up to the total amount of $20.0 million. At the
end of the agreement term, the Company's deposit will be returned, net of any
forfeitures.

The Company currently plans to make capital expenditures of approximately $275
million in fiscal 1996, primarily in connection with the continued expansion of
its manufacturing capacity. In addition, the Company is continuing to explore
various options for increasing its manufacturing capacity, including joint
ventures, acquisitions, equity investments in or loans to wafer suppliers and
construction of additional facilities.


                                       18
<PAGE>   20
Cash used in the Company's financing activities was principally for the
repayment of a $20.0 million term loan in the first quarter of fiscal 1995.
Financing activities in fiscal 1995 also generated cash of $10.1 million from
the issuance of common stock under stock purchase and stock option plans.

At October 28, 1995, the Company's principal sources of liquidity included
$69.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $81.8 million of short-term
investments. Short-term investments at the end of fiscal 1995 consisted of
commercial paper, bankers' acceptances and Euro time deposits with maturities
greater than three months and less than six months at the time of acquisition.
The Company also has various lines of credit both in the U.S. and overseas,
including a $60 million credit facility in the U.S.  which expires in 1998, all
of which were substantially unused at the end of fiscal 1995. At the end of
fiscal 1995, the Company's debt-to-equity ratio was 13%.

On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000
of five-year 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semiannual interest payments on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 1996. The Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into the
Company's common stock at any time after 60 days following the date of original
issuance, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of $27.913 per
share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The net proceeds from the sale
of the Notes were approximately $224,000,000 after payment of the underwriting
discount and expenses of the offering which will be amortized over the term of
the Notes. As of December 31, 1995, the Company's total long-term debt was
$310,000,000, comprised of the $230,000,000 of 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated
Notes and $80,000,000 of 6 5/8% Notes.

The Company believes that its existing sources of liquidity and cash expected
to be generated from future operations, together with current and anticipated
available long-term financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital
expenditures and research and development efforts for the foreseeable future.

LITIGATION

As set forth in Item 3 - "Business-Legal Proceedings," the Company is engaged
in an enforcement proceeding brought by the International Trade Commission
("ITC") related to previously settled patent infringement litigation with Texas
Instruments, Inc. The Company is also engaged in antitrust litigation with
Maxim Integrated Products, Inc.

If it is determined that the Company has violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), the ITC could seek to impose
penalties of up to $100,000 per day of violation from the date of the cease and
desist order (February 1992) or a sum equal to twice the value of goods 
determined to be sold in violation of the order.

The dismissal of Maxim's claims has been appealed. The Company believes it has
meritorious defenses to Maxim's antitrust allegations and intends to vigorously
defend the suit. Maxim asserted actual and consequential damages in the amount
of $14.1 million and claimed restitution and punitive damages in an unspecified
amount. Under applicable law, Maxim would receive three times the amount of any
actual damages suffered as a result of any antitrust violation. If the
dismissal is overturned on appeal and Maxim's claims are upheld in a subsequent
trial on the merits, in addition to potential damage awards the Company may be
required to modify its relationships with its distributors.

Although the Company believes it should prevail in the matters described above,
the Company is unable to determine their ultimate outcome or estimate the
ultimate amount of liability, if any, at this time. An adverse resolution of
these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of operations or
cash flows in the period in which the matters are resolved.


                                       19
<PAGE>   21
FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE RESULTS

The Company's future operating results are difficult to predict and may be
affected by a number of factors including the timing of new product
announcements or introductions by the Company and its competitors, competitive
pricing pressures, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability
of wafers and manufacturing capacity, changes in product mix and economic
conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, the
semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant
economic downturns at various times. While the semiconductor industry in recent
periods has experienced increased demand and production capacity constraints,
it is uncertain how long these conditions will continue. As a result of these
and other factors, there can be no assurance that the Company will not
experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a quarterly or
annual basis.

The Company's success depends in part on its continued ability to develop and
market new products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
develop and introduce new products in a timely manner or that such products, if
developed, will achieve market acceptance. In addition, the Company's growth is
dependent on its continued ability to penetrate new markets such as the
communications, computer and automotive segments of the electronics market,
where the Company has limited experience and competition is intense. There can
be no assurance that the markets being served by the Company will continue to
grow; that the Company's existing and new products will meet the requirements
of such markets; that the Company's products will achieve customer acceptance
in such markets; that competitors will not force prices to an unacceptably low
level or take market share from the Company; or that the Company can achieve or
maintain profits in these markets. Also, some of the customers in these markets
are less well established which could subject the Company to increased credit
risk.

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Certain of the Company's
competitors have greater technical, marketing, manufacturing and financial
resources than the Company. The Company's competitors also include emerging
companies attempting to sell products to specialized markets such as those
served by the Company. Competitors of the Company have, in some cases,
developed and marketed products having similar design and functionality as the
Company's products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that
the Company's operating results will not be adversely affected by increased
price competition.

The Company's manufacturing facilities are operating at full capacity, and
therefore the Company's business is currently constrained. While the Company is
planning in fiscal 1996 to increase substantially its manufacturing capacity
through both expansion of its production facilities and increased access to
third-party foundries; there can be no assurance that the Company will complete
the expansion of its production facilities or secure increased access to third
party foundries in a timely manner; that the Company will not encounter
unanticipated production problems at either its own facilities or at
third-party foundries; or that the increased capacity will be sufficient to
satisfy demand for its products. The Company relies, and plans to continue to
rely, on third-party wafer fabricators to supply most of its wafers that can be
manufactured using industry-standard digital processes, and such reliance
involves several risks, including the absence of adequate guaranteed capacity
and reduced control over delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs.
Continued manufacturing capacity constraints could adversely affect the
business of the Company's customers and cause them to seek alternative sources
for the products currently obtained from the Company. In addition, the
Company's capacity additions will result in a significant increase in operating
expenses, and if revenue levels do not increase to offset these additional
expense levels, the Company's future operating results could be adversely
affected. The Company also believes that other semiconductor manufacturers are
also expanding or planning to expand their production capacity over the next
several years, and there can be no assurance that the expansion by the Company
and its competitors will not lead to overcapacity in the Company's target
markets, which could lead to price erosion that would adversely affect the
Company's operating results.

For fiscal 1995, 56% of the Company's revenues were derived from customers in
international markets. The Company has manufacturing facilities in Ireland, the
Philippines and Taiwan. The Company is therefore subject to the economic and
political risks inherent in international operations, including expropriation,
air transportation disruptions, currency controls and changes in currency
exchange rates, tax and tariff rates and freight rates. Although the Company
engages in certain hedging transactions to reduce its exposure to currency
exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that the Company's
competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange
rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.


                                       20
<PAGE>   22
The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation
involving patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has from
time to time received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties
asserting that the Company's products or processes infringe their patents or
other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid
intellectual property claim and a license is not available on commercially
reasonable terms, the Company's operating results could be materially and
adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents or other
intellectual property rights of the Company or to defend the Company against
claims of infringement, and such litigation can be costly and divert the
attention of key personnel. See Item 3 - "Legal Proceedings" for information
concerning pending litigation involving the Company. An adverse resolution of
such litigation, may, in certain cases, have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in the period in which the litigation is resolved.

Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be
considered an indicator of future performance.  Investors should not use
historical trends to anticipate future results and should be aware that the
trading price of the Company's common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations
in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, general
conditions in the semiconductor industry, changes in earnings estimates and
recommendations by analysts or other events.


                                       21
<PAGE>   23





                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995

                                     ITEM 8

          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION





                                       22
<PAGE>   24
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                       PAGE
                                                                                                       ----
<S>                                                                                                    <C>
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN ITEM 8:

Report of Independent Auditors...................................................................       24

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994
  and October 30, 1993...........................................................................       25

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993........       26

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended October 28, 1995,
  October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993..........................................................       27

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994
  and October 30, 1993...........................................................................       28

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.......................................................       29

Supplementary Financial Information
  (Quarterly Financial Information/1995 and 1994 - Unaudited)....................................       47
</TABLE>





                                       23
<PAGE>   25
               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Analog Devices,
Inc. as of October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended October 28, 1995. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item
14(a).  These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Analog
Devices, Inc. at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended October 28, 1995, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.


                                                 ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
November 28, 1995
except for the fifth paragraph of Note 4,
as to which the date is December 18, 1995





                                       24
<PAGE>   26
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Years ended October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
(thousands except per share amounts)                                         1995          1994          1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>
REVENUE        Net sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $941,546      $773,474      $666,319

COSTS AND      Cost of sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     464,571       394,448       350,852
EXPENSES                                                                 --------      --------      --------

               Gross margin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     476,975       379,026       315,467

               Operating expenses:
                 Research and development . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     134,265       106,869        94,107
                 Selling, marketing, general
                   and administrative   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     184,943       170,341       158,675

                                                                          319,208       277,210       252,782


               Operating income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     157,767       101,816        62,685

               Nonoperating (income) expenses:
                 Interest expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4,201         7,149         7,184
                 Interest income  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      (8,103)       (5,165)       (1,417)
                 Other  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       2,234         2,921         1,393

                                                                           (1,668)        4,905         7,160


EARNINGS       Income before income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     159,435        96,911        55,525

               Provision for (benefit from) income taxes:
                 Payable currently  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      52,414        30,720        13,342
                 Deferred (prepaid) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (12,249)       (8,305)       (2,274)

                                                                           40,165        22,415        11,068


               Net income   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    $119,270      $ 74,496      $ 44,457
                                                                         ========      ========      ========
               Shares used to compute earnings per share  . . . . . .     119,039       115,907       113,543
                                                                         ========      ========      ========
               Earnings per share of common stock . . . . . . . . . .       $1.00         $ .64         $ .39
                                                                         ========      ========      ========
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.





                                       25
<PAGE>   27
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
(thousands except share amounts)
ASSETS                                                                               1995        1994        1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                            <C>           <C>         <C>
CURRENT         Cash and cash equivalents..................................    $   69,303    $109,113    $ 80,668
ASSETS          Short-term investments.....................................        81,810      72,652           -
                Accounts receivable less allowances of $4,439
                  ($6,403 in 1994 and $2,395 in 1993)......................       181,327     162,337     145,663
                Inventories................................................       143,962     130,726     150,422
                Prepaid income taxes.......................................        39,650      25,587      22,207
                Prepaid expenses and other current assets..................         9,966       5,042       4,240
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                Total current assets.......................................       526,018     505,457     403,200
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------

PROPERTY,       Land and buildings.........................................       139,718     111,857      81,110
PLANT AND       Machinery and equipment....................................       633,124     477,339     451,248
EQUIPMENT,      Office equipment...........................................        41,260      36,613      33,170
AT COST         Leasehold improvements.....................................        42,165      33,070      26,429
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                                                                                  856,267     658,879     591,957
                Less accumulated depreciation and amortization.............       424,305     377,064     343,527
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                Net property, plant and equipment..........................       431,962     281,815     248,430
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------

OTHER           Intangible assets, net.....................................        17,230      19,262      21,306
ASSETS          Deferred charges and other assets..........................        26,438       9,337       5,556
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                Total other assets.........................................        43,668      28,599      26,862
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                                                                               $1,001,648    $815,871    $678,492
                                                                               ==========    ========    ========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CURRENT         Short-term borrowings, current portion of
LIABILITIES       long-term debt and capital lease obligations.............    $    2,359    $ 23,153    $  2,341
                Accounts payable...........................................       100,217      74,506      48,779
                Deferred income on shipments to domestic distributors......        27,588      18,881      16,417
                Income taxes payable.......................................        50,086      29,425      15,405
                Accrued liabilities........................................        74,138      60,221      49,893
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                Total current liabilities..................................       254,388     206,186     132,835
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------

NONCURRENT      Long-term debt and capital lease obligations, less
LIABILITIES       current portion..........................................        80,000      80,061     100,297
                Deferred income taxes......................................         5,039       3,225       8,540
                Other noncurrent liabilities...............................         6,255       4,484       4,802
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                Total noncurrent liabilities...............................        91,294      87,770     113,639
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------

                Commitments and Contingencies

STOCKHOLDERS'   Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 500,000 shares
EQUITY            authorized, none outstanding.............................             -           -           -
                Common stock, $.16 2/3 par value, 300,000,000
                  shares authorized, 114,583,932 shares issued
                  (75,252,112 in 1994 and 50,924,637 in 1993)..............        19,098      12,542       8,488
                Capital in excess of par value, net of deferred compen-
                  sation of $3,181 ($4,757 in 1994 and $3,223 in 1993).....       149,775     141,159     143,502
                Retained earnings..........................................       481,464     362,194     287,698
                Cumulative translation adjustment..........................         5,870       6,020       5,473
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                                                                                  656,207     521,915     445,161
                Less 51,876 shares in treasury, at cost
                  (none in 1994 and 1,727,396 in 1993).....................           241           -      13,143
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                Total stockholders' equity.................................       655,966     521,915     432,018
                                                                               ----------    --------    --------
                                                                               $1,001,648    $815,871    $678,492
                                                                               ==========    ========    ========
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.


                                       26
<PAGE>   28
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Years ended October 28, 1995,             COMMON STOCK      CAPITAL IN                CUMULATIVE      TREASURY STOCK
October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993     ------------      EXCESS OF     RETAINED   TRANSLATION      --------------
(thousands)                             SHARES     AMOUNT   PAR VALUE     EARNINGS    ADJUSTMENT   SHARES       AMOUNT
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>       <C>           <C>         <C>          <C>        <C>
           Balance, October 31,
             1992                       50,192    $ 8,366     $133,714     $243,241       $4,772   (2,067)    $(15,076)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1993                                                 44,457
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1993         stock plans and other,
             net of repurchases            733        122        8,072                                340        1,933
           Compensation recognized
             under Restricted Stock
             Plan                                                1,716
           Currency translation
             adjustment                                                                      701
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, October 30,
             1993                       50,925      8,488      143,502      287,698        5,473   (1,727)     (13,143)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1994                                                 74,496
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1994         stock plans and other,
             net of repurchases            470         78        7,276                                501        3,483
           Compensation recognized
             under Restricted Stock
             Plan                                                1,851
           Tax benefit on exercise of
             nonqualified stock
             options and dis-
             qualifying dispositions
             under stock plans                                   2,166
           Three-for-two stock
             split                      23,857      3,976      (13,636)                             1,226        9,660
           Currency translation
             adjustment                                                                      547
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, October 29,
             1994                       75,252     12,542      141,159      362,194        6,020        -            -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1995                                                119,270
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1995         stock plans and other,
             net of repurchases          1,137        190       10,462                                (35)        (241)
           Compensation recognized
             under Restricted Stock
             Plan                                                1,672
           Tax benefit on exercise of
             nonqualified stock
             options and dis-
             qualifying dispositions
             under stock plans                                   2,848
           Three-for-two stock
             split                      38,195      6,366       (6,366)                               (17)           -
           Currency translation
             adjustment                                                                     (150)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, October 28,
             1995                      114,584    $19,098     $149,775     $481,464       $5,870      (52)    $   (241)
======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.


                                       27


<PAGE>   29
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Years ended October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
(thousands)                                                                      1995         1994          1993
================================================================================================================
<S>                                                                         <C>          <C>          <C>
OPERATIONS   Cash flows from operations:
                Net income   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 119,270    $  74,496    $   44,457
                Adjustments to reconcile net income
                  to net cash provided by operations:
                    Depreciation and amortization  . . . . . . . . . . . .     64,098       61,284        59,813
                    Deferred income taxes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      1,829       (5,398)       (4,130)
                    Other noncash expenses   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        151        2,195         2,779
                    (Increase) in accounts receivable  . . . . . . . . . .    (18,263)      (7,661)      (35,598)
                    (Increase) decrease in inventories   . . . . . . . . .    (14,402)      20,756        (6,268)
                    (Increase) in prepaid income taxes   . . . . . . . . .    (14,189)        (626)       (1,718)
                    (Increase) decrease in prepaid expenses and other
                      current assets   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     (4,959)        (598)          224
                    Increase in accounts payable,
                      deferred income and accrued liabilities  . . . . . .     51,332       28,939        16,617
                    Increase in income taxes payable   . . . . . . . . . .     23,784       14,063        13,922
                    Increase (decrease) in other liabilities   . . . . . .      1,599         (839)          803
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
                Total adjustments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     90,980      112,115        46,444
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
             Net cash provided by operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    210,250      186,611        90,901
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------

INVESTMENTS  Cash flows from investments:
                Additions to property, plant and equipment, net  . . . . .   (212,671)     (90,856)      (67,155)
                Purchase of short-term investments available for sale. . .   (166,225)     (72,652)            -
                Maturities of short-term investments available for sale. .    162,067            -             -
                Purchase of short-term investments held to maturity. . . .     (7,200)           -             -
                Maturities of short-term investments held to maturity. . .      2,200            -             -
                Increase in other assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (16,878)      (3,269)       (1,406)
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
             Net cash used for investments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   (238,707)    (166,777)      (68,561)
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------

FINANCING    Cash flows from financing activities:
ACTIVITIES      Payments on long-term debt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    (20,000)           -       (20,194)
                Proceeds from employee stock plans . . . . . . . . . . . .     10,126        9,821         9,995
                Net increase (decrease) in variable rate borrowings. . . .       (787)         485       (29,895)
                Payments on capital lease obligations  . . . . . . . . . .       (237)        (335)         (313)
                Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt . . . . . . . . .          -            -        80,000
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
             Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities. . . . .    (10,898)       9,971        39,593
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
             Effect of exchange rate changes on cash . . . . . . . . . . .       (455)      (1,360)        1,005
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
             Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents. . . . .    (39,810)      28,445        62,938
             Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year  . . . . . . .    109,113       80,668        17,730
                                                                            ---------    ---------    ----------
             Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  . . . . . . . . . .  $  69,303    $ 109,113    $   80,668
                                                                            =========    =========    ==========
SUPPLE-      Cash paid during the year for:
MENTAL          Income taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $  30,511    $  12,965    $    4,084
INFORMATION                                                                 =========    =========    ==========
                Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $   6,685    $   6,923    $    6,771
                                                                            =========    =========    ==========
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.


                                       28
<PAGE>   30
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995, OCTOBER 29, 1994 AND OCTOBER 30, 1993
          (ALL TABULAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a. PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. The Company's fiscal year
ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal years 1995, 1994
and 1993 were each 52-week years.

Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to
the 1995 presentation.

b. CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with insignificant
interest rate risk and maturities of three months or less at the time of
acquisition. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months at time
of acquisition are considered short- term investments. Short-term investments
consist of debt securities such as commercial paper, time deposits, certificates
of deposit and bankers acceptances.

Effective October 30, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" (FAS 115), which creates certain classification categories
for such investments, based on the nature of the securities and the intent and
investment goals of the Company. FAS 115 has been adopted on a prospective
basis, and the financial statements of prior years have not been restated. The
cumulative effect of the change was not material. FAS 115 requires investments
in debt and equity securities to be classified as "held-to-maturity,"
"available-for-sale," or "trading" at the time of purchase and for such
designation to be reevaluated as of each balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity
securities, which are carried at amortized cost, include only those securities
the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity.
Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains
and losses, net of related tax, if any, reported as a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses, declines in value judged to be
other than temporary, and interest income on all securities are included in
earnings. At October 28, 1995, the Company did not own any securities classified
as trading.

While it is the intent of management to hold securities to maturity, unforeseen
events, while not generally expected, could cause the Company to liquidate
certain securities prior to maturity. Accordingly, those securities which could
readily be sold back to the seller are classified as available-for-sale.
Securities, such as bank time deposits, which by their nature are typically
held-to- maturity are classified as such. The following is a summary of
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at October 28, 1995:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Available-for-Sale        Held-to-Maturity
                                      ------------------        ----------------
                                            Cost                      Cost
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>                       <C>
Cash equivalents:
  Commercial paper                         $ 27,727                  $     -
  Euro time deposits                              -                   31,300
Short-term investments:
  Commercial paper                           73,874                        -
  Bankers' acceptances                        2,936                        -
  Euro time deposits                              -                    5,000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                      $104,537                  $36,300
================================================================================
</TABLE>


                                       29
<PAGE>   31
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


Securities classified as available-for-sale and held-to-maturity at October 28,
1995 have contractual maturities of six months or less at time of acquisition.
Because of the short term to maturity, and hence relative price insensitivity to
changes in market interest rates, amortized cost approximates fair value for all
of these securities. As such, no unrealized gains or losses were recorded at
year end. There were no proceeds, gross realized gains or gross realized losses
from sales of any securities during the year.

c. INVENTORIES

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or
market. Inventories at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           1995              1994           1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         <S>                           <C>                <C>           <C>
         Raw materials                 $ 22,327          $ 15,277       $ 18,645
         Work in process                 77,526            69,771         80,418
         Finished goods                  44,109            45,678         51,359
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total inventories             $143,962          $130,726       $150,422
================================================================================
</TABLE>

A director of a raw material supplier was also a director of the Company through
January 1995. Total purchases from this supplier approximated $11,038,000
through January 1995, $28,435,000 in 1994 and $37,990,000 in 1993. Accounts
payable to this supplier at October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993 approximated
$1,090,000 and $3,639,000, respectively. Another director of the Company was
also a director of a raw material supplier through June 1993. Total purchases
from this supplier approximated $1,510,000 in 1993. The Company believes that
the terms of these purchases were comparable to those available from other
suppliers.

d. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

The straight-line method of depreciation is used for all classes of assets for
financial statement purposes; both straight-line and accelerated methods are
used for income tax purposes. Capitalized leases and leasehold improvements are
amortized based upon the lesser of the term of the lease or the useful life of
the asset. Depreciation and amortization are based on the following useful
lives:

<TABLE>
             <S>                                          <C>
             Buildings & Building Equipment               Up to 25 years
             Machinery & Equipment                            3-10 years
             Office Equipment                                  3-8 years
</TABLE>

Total depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment was
$62,066,000, $59,240,000 and $57,732,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

e. INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets at October 28, 1995 consist of goodwill, patents and other
intangibles. Goodwill is being amortized on a straight- line basis over a
fifteen-year period. Patents and other intangibles are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives which range from seven
to fifteen years. Amortization expense for all intangible assets was $2,032,000,
$2,044,000 and $2,081,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Accumulated
amortization for all intangible assets was $10,668,000, $8,636,000 and
$6,657,000 at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993,
respectively. On a periodic basis, the Company estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the businesses to which the intangible assets relate in order to
ensure that the carrying value of such intangible assets has not been impaired.


                                       30
<PAGE>   32
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


f. GRANT ACCOUNTING

The Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland has received various
grants from the Industrial Development Authority of the Republic of Ireland.
These grants include capital, employment, and research and development grants.
Capital grants for the acquisition of property and equipment are netted against
the related capital expenditures and amortized as a credit to depreciation
expense over the useful life of the related asset. Employment grants, which
relate to employee hiring and training, and research and development grants are
recognized in earnings in the period in which the related expenditures are
incurred by the Company.

g. TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES

The functional currency for the Company's foreign sales operations is the
applicable local currency. Gains and losses resulting from translation of these
foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are accumulated in a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in income
currently, including those at the Company's principal foreign manufacturing
operations where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Net foreign
currency transaction gains or losses included in other expenses, net, were not
material in fiscal 1995, 1994 and 1993.

h. FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS AND INTEREST RATE AGREEMENTS

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency
option contracts and currency swap agreements to offset certain operational and
balance sheet exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such
exposures result from the portion of the Company's operations, assets and
liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies. These foreign exchange contract,
option and swap transactions are entered into to support product sales,
purchases and financing transactions made in the normal course of business, and
accordingly, are not speculative in nature.

Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to manage the risk associated
with currency fluctuations on certain firm sales and purchase commitments
denominated in foreign currencies and certain non-U.S. dollar denominated asset
and liability positions. The Company's forward foreign exchange contracts are
primarily denominated in Japanese yen and certain European currencies and are
for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally
one year or less. The forward foreign exchange contracts that relate to firm,
foreign currency sales and purchase commitments are designated and effective as
hedges of firm, identifiable foreign currency commitments, and accordingly, the
gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate movements
on these contracts are not recognized in operations until the underlying hedged
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such gains and losses are
recorded in operations as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the underlying
transactions in the period in which these transactions are recognized.
Unrealized gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate
movements on forward foreign exchange contracts designated to offset certain
non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are recognized as other
income or expense in the period in which the exchange rates change and offset
the foreign currency gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged.
The contract amounts of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding were
$181.7 million, $136.4 million and $107.9 million at October 28, 1995, October
29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, respectively.


                                       31
<PAGE>   33
                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


The Company also may periodically enter into foreign currency options contracts
to offset certain probable anticipated, but not firmly committed, foreign
currency transactions related to the sale of product during the ensuing nine
months. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign
currencies, the decline in value of future currency cash flows is partially
offset by the gains in value of the purchased currency options designated as
hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the increase in value of future
foreign currency cash flows is reduced only by the premium paid to acquire the
options. The Company's foreign currency option contracts are primarily
denominated in Japanese yen and generally have maturities which do not exceed
six months. These foreign currency option contracts are designated and effective
as hedges of anticipated foreign currency sales transactions, and accordingly,
the premium cost and any realized gains associated with these contracts are
deferred and included in the consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and
accrued liabilities, respectively, until such time as the underlying sales
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such premium costs and any
realized gains are recorded in sales as a component of the underlying sales
transactions being hedged. The contract amounts of foreign currency option
contracts outstanding were $26.9 million, $28.6 million and $29.0 million at
October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, respectively. Deferred
gains or losses attributable to foreign currency option contracts were not
material at October 28, 1995.


The Company uses currency swap agreements to hedge the value of its net
investment in certain of its foreign subsidiaries. Realized and unrealized gains
and losses on such agreements related to the net foreign investment being hedged
are recognized in the cumulative translation adjustment component of
stockholders' equity, with the related amounts due to or from counterparties
included in accrued liabilities or other current assets. The contract amount of
currency swap agreements outstanding, which were principally denominated in
Japanese yen, was $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.
Currency swap agreements outstanding at October 28, 1995 have maturities of one
year and generally remain in effect until expiration.

The Company enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its
exposure to interest rate movements by effectively converting a portion of its
debt and certain financing arrangements from fixed to variable rates. Maturity
dates of interest rate swap and cap agreements generally match those of the
underlying debt or financing arrangements. These agreements, which have
maturities of up to twelve years involve the exchange of fixed rate payments for
variable rate payments without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Variable rates are based on six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and reset on a
semiannual basis. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid
or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with the
agreements and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to
interest expense. The notional principal amounts of interest rate swap and cap
agreements outstanding were $50.3 million, $50.5 million and $40.0 million at
October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993.


The cash requirements of the above-described financial instruments approximate
their fair value. Cash flows associated with these financial instruments are
classified consistent with the cash flows from the transactions being hedged.


                                       32
<PAGE>   34
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


Derivative financial instruments involve, to a varying degree, elements of
market and credit risk not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency
exchange rate or interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk
of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The
counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's foreign exchange and
interest rate instruments consist of a number of major high credit quality
international financial institutions. The Company does not believe that there is
significant risk of nonperformance by these counterparties because the Company
continually monitors the credit ratings of such counterparties, and limits the
financial exposure and the amount of agreements entered into with any one
financial institution. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative
financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions,
they do not represent the amount of the Company's exposure to credit risk. The
amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability
of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to
the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the 
contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.

i. CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of investments and trade accounts receivable.

The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with
high credit quality financial institutions and monitors the amount of credit
exposure to any one financial institution.

The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
manufacturers involved in a variety of industries including industrial
automation, instrumentation, military/aerospace, and to an increasing degree,
communications, computers and peripherals, and high-performance consumer
electronics. The Company has adopted credit policies and standards to
accommodate growth into these markets. The Company believes that any risk of
accounting loss with respect to trade accounts receivable is limited due to the
diversity of its products, end customers and geographic sales areas. The Company
performs continuing credit evaluations of its customers financial condition and
although the Company generally does not require collateral, letters of credit
may be required from its customers in certain circumstances. Due to the
Company's credit evaluation and collection process, bad debt losses have been
insignificant.



                                       33
<PAGE>   35
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


j. FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following estimated fair value amounts have been determined by the Company
using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to
develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein
are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in
a current market exchange.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    OCTOBER 28, 1995        OCTOBER 29, 1994        OCTOBER 30, 1993
                                    ----------------        ----------------        ----------------
                                  CARRYING       FAIR     CARRYING       FAIR     CARRYING        FAIR
                                    AMOUNT      VALUE       AMOUNT      VALUE       AMOUNT       VALUE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Assets:
    Cash and cash equivalents     $ 69,303   $ 69,303    $ 109,113   $109,113    $  80,668   $  80,668
    Short-term investments          81,810     81,810       72,652     72,652            -           -

Liabilities:
    Short-term borrowings           (2,299)    (2,299)      (2,917)    (2,917)      (2,006)     (2,006)
    Long-term debt, including
      current portion              (80,000)   (80,130)    (100,000)   (93,800)    (100,000)   (102,400)

Foreign Currency Instruments and
  Interest Rate Agreements:
    Interest rate swap
      and cap agreements               (30)      (175)           5     (3,065)          98          89
    Forward foreign currency
      exchange contracts             7,798      9,089       (1,458)       641          727          25
    Foreign currency option
      contracts                        388      1,645          308         41          460         468
    Currency swap agreements           413        485         (853)      (840)           -           -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating its
fair value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments -The carrying amounts of these
items are a reasonable estimate of their fair value due to the short term to
maturity and readily available market for these types of investments.

Short-term borrowings-The carrying amounts of these variable-rate borrowings
approximate fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.

Long-term debt-The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on current
interest rates available to the Company for debt instruments with similar terms,
degree of risk and remaining maturities.

Interest rate swap and cap agreements-The fair value of interest rate swap and
cap agreements are obtained from dealer quotes. These values represent the
estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate the agreements
taking into consideration current interest rates.

Forward foreign currency exchange contacts-The estimated fair value of forward
foreign currency exchange contracts is based on the estimated amount at which
they could be settled based on market exchange rates.

Foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements-The fair values 
of foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements are obtained 
from dealer quotes. These values represent the estimated net amount the Company
would receive or pay to terminate the agreements.


                                       34
<PAGE>   36
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


k. REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenue from product sales to end users is recognized upon shipment. A portion
of the Company's sales are made to domestic distributors under agreements
allowing for price protection and certain rights of return on merchandise unsold
by the distributors. Because of the uncertainty associated with pricing
concessions and future returns, the Company defers recognition of such sales and
related gross margin until the merchandise is sold by the distributors. For
sales to international distributors, the Company recognizes the sale upon
shipment to the distributor, but provides specific reserves for possible returns
and allowances.

l. INCOME TAXES

In February 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" (FAS 109).
FAS 109 requires a change from the deferred method of accounting for income
taxes under APB Opinion 11 to the asset and liability method of accounting for
income taxes. Under the asset and liability method of FAS 109, deferred tax
assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax
assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to
be recovered or settled. Under FAS 109, the effect of a change in tax rates on
deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date. Deferred tax asset valuation allowances are
recorded to offset deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some
or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The Company established a
valuation allowance, primarily for financial and tax capital losses, based on
the assessment that realization of such character of income is not assured.

Effective October 31, 1993 the Company adopted FAS 109. The adoption of FAS 109
was not material to the consolidated financial statements. As permitted by FAS
109, prior years' financial statements have not been restated.

Pursuant to the deferred method under APB Opinion 11, which was applied at
October 30, 1993 and in prior fiscal years, deferred income taxes are recognized
for income and expense items that are reported in different years for financial
reporting purposes and income tax purposes using the tax rate applicable for the
year of calculation. Under the deferred method, deferred taxes are not adjusted
for subsequent changes in tax rates.

m. STOCK SPLIT

On November 28, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
three-for-two stock split effected in the form of a 50% stock dividend
distributed on January 3, 1996 to stockholders of record December 12, 1995. The
split was accomplished through the issuance of common stock. All references to
share and per share amounts in this report have been restated to reflect the
split.

n. EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK

Primary earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for incremental
shares assumed issued for dilutive common stock equivalents. Fully diluted
earnings per share do not differ materially from primary earnings per share.

o. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which will require adoption in
fiscal 1997. The Company is in the process of determining the effect of adoption
of these statements on its consolidated financial statements and related
disclosures.


                                       35
<PAGE>   37
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


2. INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION

INDUSTRY

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high- performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

The Company operates in three major geographic areas. Information on the
Company's geographic operations is set forth in the table below. The
predominant countries comprising European operations are England, France,
Germany and Ireland. The predominant country comprising Asian operations is
Japan. For segment reporting purposes, sales generated by North American
operations in the table include export sales of $97,446,000, $96,700,000 and
$71,542,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Transfers between geographic
areas are based on market comparables and are consistent with prevailing
tax regulations. Operating income reflects the allocation of corporate expenses
of $23,190,000, $19,718,000 and $17,174,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively, to the appropriate geographic area based upon their beneficial
and causal relationship to each area. Corporate identifiable assets consist of
cash equivalents, short-term investments and intangible assets.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION                                       1995            1994           1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>                <C>           <C>
SALES         North America, including export  . . . .         $  509,625        $440,609       $363,671
              Europe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            264,401         198,000        196,310
              Asia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            167,520         134,865        106,338
                                                               ----------        --------       --------
                Total sales  . . . . . . . . . . . . .         $  941,546        $773,474       $666,319
                                                               ==========        ========       ========

TRANSFERS     North America, including export  . . . .            286,021        $192,442       $161,081
BETWEEN       Europe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            141,925         110,801         94,948
AREAS         Asia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             30,180          19,603         12,569
                                                               ----------        --------       --------
                Total transfers between areas  . . . .         $  458,126        $322,846       $268,598
                                                               ==========        ========       ========

OPERATING     North America, including export  . . . .             92,640        $ 52,706       $ 26,546
INCOME        Europe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             63,627          47,170         35,205
              Asia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1,500           1,940            934
                                                               ----------        --------       --------
                Total operating income . . . . . . . .         $  157,767        $101,816       $ 62,685
                                                               ==========        ========       ========

IDENTIFIABLE  North America, including export  . . . .         $  440,660        $354,881       $367,347
ASSETS        Europe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            294,094         176,755        147,979
              Asia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            108,827          95,988         78,215
              Corporate  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            158,067         188,247         84,951
                                                               ----------        --------       --------
                Total assets . . . . . . . . . . . . .         $1,001,648        $815,871       $678,492
                                                               ==========        ========       ========
</TABLE>


                                       36
<PAGE>   38
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


3. ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            1995             1994           1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      <S>                                <C>             <C>            <C>
      Accrued compensation
        and benefits                     $47,785         $33,908         $31,652
      Other                               26,353          26,313          18,241
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total accrued liabilities          $74,138         $60,221         $49,893
================================================================================
</TABLE>


4. DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES

6 5/8% NOTES

On March 11, 1993, the Company completed a public offering of $80 million of
seven-year 6 5/8% Notes due March 1, 2000 with semiannual interest payments on
March 1 and September 1. The net proceeds of the offering were approximately $79
million after payment of the underwriting discounts and expenses of the offering
which were deferred and are being amortized to interest expense over the term of
the Notes. Simultaneous with the sale of the Notes, the Company entered into an
interest rate swap and cap agreement for the term of the Notes having a notional
principal amount of $40 million whereby the effective net interest rate on $40
million of the Notes will be the six-month LIBOR rate (up to a maximum of 7%)
plus 1.4%. For the year ended October 28, 1995, the net effective interest rate
on $40 million of the Notes was 7.8% after giving effect to the interest rate
swap agreement.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LINES OF CREDIT

The Company has a revolving credit agreement with several banks which commits
them to lend up to $60,000,000. The terms of the credit agreement provide that
interest on U.S. dollar borrowings may not exceed the greater of the prime rate
or the federal funds rate plus .50%. Under this agreement, the Company also has
the option to borrow both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies at interest rates
tied to various money market instruments, customarily below the prime rate.
Under the credit agreement, the Company is currently required to pay fees of .05
of 1% per annum on the unused portion of the lending commitment and .15 of 1%
per annum on the total amount of the committed facility. All borrowings under
the credit agreement are due no later than September 8, 1998. Borrowing from
banks not participating in the agreement is permitted as long as the Company
maintains certain required financial ratios. The credit agreement requires the
Company to maintain stated minimum net worth and current ratio levels, plus a
stated maximum ratio of total liabilities to net worth. In addition, the credit
agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash dividend payments declared or made
subsequent to January 30, 1993 to an amount not exceeding $29,734,000 plus 50%
of the consolidated net income of the Company for the period from January 31,
1993 through the end of the Company's then most recent fiscal quarter. At
October 28, 1995 this amount was equal to $144,782,000. At October 28, 1995, the
Company was in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement. There
are no compensating balance requirements under the credit agreement. In addition
to the credit agreement, the Company also has various unsecured, uncommitted
money market lines of credit with its credit agreement and other banks which
provide for short-term borrowings.


                                       37
<PAGE>   39
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


The weighted average interest rate of U.S. dollar borrowings under the credit
agreement and the uncommitted money market lines of credit was 4.0% during 1993.
There were no variable rate U.S. dollar borrowings under the credit agreement or
the uncommitted money market lines of credit during 1995 and 1994 nor were there
any such borrowings outstanding at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 or October
30, 1993. The weighted average interest rates of foreign currency borrowings
under foreign lines of credit were 7.2%, 8.7% and 10.9% during 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. The weighted average interest rates of foreign currency
borrowings were 6.2%, 7.4% and 11.8% at October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and
October 30, 1993, respectively. There were $2.3 million of foreign currency
borrowings outstanding at October 28, 1995, which were at prevailing money
market rates for the respective currencies. Borrowings under the Company's
credit agreement and lines of credit are generally due within six months.


Long-term debt, including current maturities, at October 28, 1995, October 29,
1994 and October 30, 1993 consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1995             1994             1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>             <C>              <C>
   6 5/8% Notes due 2000               $80,000         $ 80,000         $ 80,000
   7.18% term loan                           -           20,000           20,000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        80,000          100,000          100,000
   Less current portion of
     long-term debt                          -           20,000                -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Long-term debt                      $80,000         $ 80,000         $100,000
================================================================================
</TABLE>

On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000 of
five-year 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semiannual interest payments on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 1996. The Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into the
Company's common stock at any time after 60 days following the date of original
issuance, unless previously redeemed, at a conversion price of $27.913 per
share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The net proceeds of the offering
were approximately $224 million after payment of the underwriting discount and
expenses of the offering which will be amortized over the term of the Notes. As
of December 31, 1995, the Company's total long-term debt was $310,000,000
comprised of the $230,000,000 of 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes and
$80,000,000 of 6 5/8% Notes.


Aggregate principal payments on long-term debt and short-term borrowings for the
following fiscal years, after consideration of the $230.0 million of 3-1/2%
Convertible Subordinated Notes, are: 1996-$2.3 million; 2000-$80.0 million; and
2001-$230.0 million.


                                       38
<PAGE>   40
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


5. LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under various
operating and capital leases which expire at various dates through 2010. The
lease agreements frequently include renewal and purchase provisions and require
the Company to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.

Total rental expense under operating leases was $11,243,000, $9,985,000 and
$8,853,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under capital
leases and rental payments required under long-term operating leases at October
28, 1995:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     OPERATING         CAPITAL
FISCAL YEARS                                            LEASES          LEASES
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>                <C>
1996                                                   $ 8,494            $ 77
1997                                                     6,835               -
1998                                                     4,952               -
1999                                                     4,740               -
2000                                                     4,023               -
Later Years                                             16,979               -
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                  $46,023            $ 77
                                                       =======
Less amount representing interest                                          (17)
                                                                           ---
Present value of minimum lease payments                                   $ 60
                                                                          ====
</TABLE>


Net property, plant and equipment includes the following for capital leases:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1995            1994            1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>             <C>              <C>
Land and buildings                     $ 1,828         $ 1,828         $ 1,828
Machinery and equipment                    829             829             829
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         2,657           2,657           2,657
Less accumulated amortization           (2,639)         (2,468)         (2,231)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net capital leases                     $    18         $   189         $   426
==============================================================================
</TABLE>


6.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LITIGATION

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents is also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. If it
is determined that the Company has violated the cease and desist order, the ITC
could seek to impose penalties of up to $100,000 per day of violation from the
date of the cease and desist order (February 1992) or a sum equal to twice the
value of the goods determined to be sold in violation of the order. In
addition, in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in
Massachusetts alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of
the Company's patents.


                                       39
<PAGE>   41
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both Texas lawsuits and the
Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a royalty-free cross license of
certain of the Company's and TI's patents. On April 25, 1995, the Company filed
with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC enforcement proceeding on the
grounds that further action by the ITC is unnecessary in light of the Company's
settlement with TI. On May 8 1995, an Administrative Law Judge issued a
recommended determination to the ITC to grant the Company's motion to terminate
the ITC proceeding. The investigative office of the ITC has opposed the motion,
claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's settlement with TI, the Company's
alleged violation of the ITC's cease and desist order warrants the imposition
of substantial penalties. The Company's motion is pending before the ITC.

The Company is a defendant in a lawsuit brought by Maxim Integrated Products,
Inc. ("Maxim") in the United States District Court for the Northern District of
California seeking an injunction against, and claiming damages for, alleged
antitrust violations and unfair competition in connection with distribution
arrangements between the Company and certain distributors. Maxim alleged that
certain distributors ceased doing business with Maxim as a result of the
distribution arrangements between the distributors and the Company, resulting in
improper restrictions to Maxim's access to channels by which it distributes its
products. Maxim asserted actual and consequential damages in the amount of $14.1
million and claimed restitution and punitive damages in an unspecified amount.
Under applicable law, Maxim would receive three times the amount of any actual
damages suffered as a result of any antitrust violation. On September 7, 1994,
Maxim's claim was dismissed for lack of evidence. Maxim has appealed this ruling
and oral argument of the appeal was held in January 1996.

Although the Company believes it should prevail in the matters described in the
previous three paragraphs, the Company is unable to determine their ultimate
outcome or estimate the ultimate amount of liability, if any, at this time. An
adverse resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in the period in which the matters are resolved.


In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, personal injury, environmental matters and product liability. Such
litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against the Company by
Sextant Avionique, S.A. ("Sextant") in Paris, France, which claims that the
Company's accelerometer infringes certain Sextant patents and seeks to enjoin
such infringement. While there can be no assurance that the Company will        
prevail in all of these matters, the Company does not believe that these
matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or consolidated results of operations. However, an adverse
resolution could have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results
of operations in the quarter in which these matters are resolved.

IRISH GRANTS

During fiscal 1995, the Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland
entered into a grant agreement with Ireland's Industrial Development Authority
("IDA") under which the Company will receive grant monies of up to 10.1 million
Irish Pounds (approximately $16.4 million at October 28, 1995) for capital and
start-up costs associated with the wafer fabrication expansion at this
facility. As of October 28, 1995, the Company had not received any grant monies
under this agreement. The Company's Irish facility has previously received
operating and capital grants from the IDA; a liability to repay up to $13.1
million of the grants received by the Company would arise in the unlikely event
the Company should discontinue its Irish operations prior to the commitment
periods noted in the grant agreements which expire at various dates through
1999.


                                       40
<PAGE>   42
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


WAFER SUPPLY AGREEMENTS

In May 1995, the Company entered into a wafer supply agreement with its primary
foundry, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. ("TSMC"). The terms of
this agreement provide for a series of advance payments to TSMC aggregating
$22.4 million, payable over a three-year period, to be used by TSMC in the
expansion of their wafer fabrication facility in Taiwan. In return, the Company
will be provided access to a minimum level of wafer capacity over the period
from 1996 to 1999. The first payment to TSMC was made in June 1995. The
remaining payments under the agreement are due in June 1996, June 1997 and June
1998. The advance payments will be repaid to the Company each year in the form
of credits against the prices of wafers purchased by the Company when such
wafer purchases exceed a defined minimum.

In March 1995, the Company entered into an agreement with an external wafer
foundry, Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM"), which
provides for an equity investment of approximately $20.0 million to be applied
primarily towards the construction of a new CSM eight-inch, 0.5 micron wafer
fabrication facility in Singapore. In consideration for its investment, the
Company receives a minority equity position of less than 5% in CSM and will
receive guaranteed foundry capacity and pricing commitments for sub-micron
wafers manufactured at CSM's new facility beginning in 1996. The Company
invested $14.0 million in fiscal 1995 in connection with this agreement. The
Company's investment in CSM is included in the balance sheet caption, "Deferred
Charges and Other Assets."

OTHER

Under the terms of the lease agreement related to the Company's headquarters
facility in Norwood, Massachusetts, the Company has agreed to assume the note
related to the property in the case of default by the lessor. Assumption of the
note, which was $10.3 million at October 28, 1995, would entitle the Company to
a first lien on the property. In addition, the Company may be subject to an
incremental rent payment if the Company were to either default on the lease or
not exercise its option to extend the lease at the end of the current
fifteen-year term. This payment would be the present value of the balance of
the lessor's debt related to the property in excess of $6.5 million at the end
of the current lease term. As of October 28, 1995, the Company's unrecorded
financial risk of loss under this agreement was $2.0 million in the unlikely
event of default.

7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

In March 1995, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Articles
of Organization to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock
from 150,000,000 to 300,000,000. In December 1995, the Board of Directors
authorized an amendment to the Company's Articles of Organization to increase
the authorized number of shares of common stock from 300,000,000 to 450,000,000
subject to stockholder approval in March 1996.

STOCK PLANS

The 1988 Stock Option Plan provides for the issuance of nonstatutory and
incentive stock options to purchase up to 15,525,000 shares of common stock.
Under this plan, options may be granted to key employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries at a price not less than 100% of the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the date of grant. The Company's 1980 Stock Option Plan was
terminated upon adoption of the 1988 Stock Option Plan; however, options to
purchase common stock remain outstanding under this plan. In December 1995, the
Board of Directors authorized an increase in the number of shares of common
stock available for issuance under the 1988 Stock Option Plan from 15,525,000
to 22,425,000 subject to stockholder approval in March 1996.

While the Company may grant options to employees which become exercisable at
different times or within different periods, the Company has generally granted
options to employees which are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual
installments of 33 1/3% each on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of
the date of grant.


                                       41
<PAGE>   43
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Under the 1994 Director Stock Option Plan, each nonemployee director is granted
annually for four years a nonstatutory option to purchase 7,875 shares of
common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. A total of 300,000 shares of common stock may be issued under this plan.
These options are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of
33 1/3% each on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.
The Company also has options outstanding under the 1992 Director Option Plan
and the 1989 Director Stock Option Plan. Options granted under these plans are
exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33 1/3% each on the
third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.


Transactions under the Company's stock option plans are summarized in the table
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
                                                             SHARES       ----------------------------
                                                          AVAILABLE                       OPTION PRICE      AGGREGATE
STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY                                     FOR GRANT       NUMBER             PER SHARE          PRICE
=====================================================================================================================
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>         <C>                   <C>
Balance, October 31, 1992                                       447        9,478      $ 2.61 to $ 8.17        $38,317
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Additional shares authorized for 1988 Stock Option Plan       7,875            -             -                      -
Shares authorized for 1992 Director Option Plan                 225            -             -                      -
Options granted                                                (261)         261      $ 4.39 to $10.72          1,669
Options exercised                                                 -       (1,599)     $ 2.61 to $ 7.00         (7,695)
Options canceled (1)                                            495         (576)     $ 2.61 to $ 7.00         (2,224)
Shares canceled upon termination of
  1989 Director Stock Option Plan                               (68)           -             -                      -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 30, 1993                                     8,713        7,564      $ 2.61 to $10.72         30,067
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options granted                                              (3,091)       3,091      $ 9.39 to $13.33         30,482
Options exercised                                                 -       (1,024)     $ 2.61 to $ 8.17         (4,250)
Options canceled (1)                                            185         (186)     $ 2.61 to $11.44           (844)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 29, 1994                                     5,807        9,445      $ 2.61 to $13.33         55,455
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares authorized for 1994 Director Stock Option Plan           300            -             -                      -
Options granted                                              (2,662)       2,662      $13.67 to $23.42         36,887
Options exercised                                                 -       (1,062)     $ 2.61 to $ 7.00         (3,960)
Options canceled (1)                                            371         (393)     $ 2.61 to $13.67         (2,989)
Shares canceled upon termination of
  1992 Director Option Plan                                     (68)           -             -                      -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 28, 1995                                     3,748       10,652      $ 2.61 to $23.42        $85,393
=====================================================================================================================
Options exercisable at October 28, 1995                                    2,984      $ 2.61 to $13.67        $11,212
=====================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1) Options canceled which were originally issued from the 1988 Stock Option
    Plan are available for subsequent grants. The remaining options canceled in
    1995, 1994 and 1993 were issued from the 1980 Stock Option and 1992 Director
    Option Plans under which no further options will be granted.

The Company has a stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to
purchase, through payroll deductions, shares of the Company's common stock at
85% of the fair market value at specified dates. Employees purchased 626,800
shares in 1995 (785,700 and 1,131,800 in 1994 and 1993, respectively) for $6.9
million ($6.0 million and $4.2 million in 1994 and 1993, respectively). At
October 28, 1995, 1,505,700 common shares remained available for issuance under
the stock purchase plan.



                                       42
<PAGE>   44
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


Under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan, a maximum of 1,575,000 shares of common
stock may be awarded by the Company to key employees for nominal consideration.
This plan succeeded the Company's 1978 Restricted Stock Plan which provided for
the issuance of up to 5,529,600 shares of common stock. Shares awarded from both
plans are restricted as to transfer, usually for a period of five years and,
under certain conditions, may be subject to repurchase by the Company at the
original purchase price per share. Shares awarded under the Company's restricted
stock plans, net of cancellations, for 1995, 1994 and 1993 were 15,000, 353,250
and 31,500, respectively. The fair market value of the shares at the date of
award was accounted for as deferred compensation and is being amortized over the
restricted period. During 1995, 1994 and 1993, $1,672,000, $1,851,000 and
$1,716,000, respectively, of such compensation was charged to expense. At
October 28, 1995, there were 444,000 shares of common stock available for
issuance under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan. In December 1995, the Board of
Directors authorized an increase in the number of shares of common stock
available for issuance under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan from 1,575,000 to
2,025,000 subject to stockholder approval in March 1996.



WARRANTS

In 1990, the Company issued warrants for the purchase of 2,250,000 shares of
common stock. Each warrant entitles the holder to purchase one share of the
Company's common stock at an exercise price of $5.33 per share, subject to
certain adjustments, anytime prior to the expiration of the warrants on August
7, 1997. At October 28, 1995, all of the warrants were outstanding.


As of October 28, 1995, a total of 18,603,000 common shares were reserved for
issuance under the Company's stock plans and warrant agreement.


PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has 500,000 authorized shares of $1.00 par value Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is authorized to fix designations, relative rights,
preferences and limitations on the preferred stock at the time of issuance. The
Company had previously authorized 35,000 shares of such Preferred Stock as
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, of which 28,066 shares were sold in prior
years. As of June 14, 1990, all of these shares had been fully converted to
common stock.

COMMON STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

In 1988, the Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan which was
amended in 1989. Pursuant to the Stockholder Rights Plan, each share of common
stock has an associated right. Under certain circumstances, each right entitles
the holder to purchase from the Company one share of common stock at an
exercise price of $26.67 per share, subject to adjustment.

The rights are not exercisable and cannot be transferred separately from the
common stock until ten days after a person acquires 20% or more or makes a
tender offer for 30% or more of the Company's common stock. If, after the
rights become exercisable, (i) any person becomes the owner of 20% or more of
the Company's common stock, or (ii) the Company is the surviving entity in a
merger with a 20% or more stockholder, or (iii) a 20% or more stockholder
engages in certain "self-dealing" transactions with the Company, each right not
owned by such person will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right's
exercise price, common stock having a value of two times the exercise price of
the right. In addition, if the Company is either (i) acquired in a merger or
other business combination in which the Company is not the surviving entity, or
(ii) sells or transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another
party, each right will entitle its holder to purchase, upon exercise, common
stock of the acquiring Company having a value equal to two times the exercise
price of the right.


                                       43
<PAGE>   45
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


The rights have certain anti-takeover effects, in that they would cause
substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire a
significant interest in the Company on terms not approved by the Board of
Directors. The rights expire on February 12, 1998 but may be redeemed by the
Company for $.0089 per right at any time prior to the tenth day following a
person's acquisition of 20% or more of the Company's common stock. So long as
the rights are not separately transferable, the Company will issue one right
with each new share of common stock issued.

8.  RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company and its subsidiaries have various savings and retirement plans
covering substantially all employees. The Company maintains a defined
contribution plan for the benefit of its eligible United States employees.
This plan provides for Company contributions of up to 5% of each participant's
total eligible compensation. In addition, the Company contributes an amount
equal to each participant's contribution, if any, up to a maximum of 2% of each
participant's total eligible compensation. The Company also has various defined
benefit pension and other retirement plans for certain foreign employees that
are consistent with local statutes and practices. The total expense related to
all of the Company's retirement plans in 1995, 1994 and 1993 was $14.0 million,
$12.6 million and $11.9 million, respectively, which primarily consists of
costs related to the domestic defined contribution plan. Also included in total
expense is pension expense related to foreign defined benefit plans of $2.5
million for 1995, $2.5 million for 1994 and $3.0 million for 1993. Summary data
related to these foreign plans at October 28, 1995 is as follows: accumulated
benefit obligation, substantially vested, of $22.2 million; projected benefit
obligation of $35.2 million; plan assets at fair value of $32.4 million;
discount rates ranging from 4% to 15%; compensation increase rates ranging from
3% to 12% and expected rate of return on assets ranging from 5% to 15%.

In fiscal 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits" (FAS 112). FAS 112
requires that postemployment benefits, primarily salary continuation and
insurance continuation, be accrued for at the time the benefit is earned by the
employee. Adoption of FAS 112 did not have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

9.  INCOME TAXES

As discussed in Note 1(l), the Company adopted FAS 109 as of October 31, 1993.

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory rates
to income tax expense is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     LIABILITY METHOD       DEFERRED METHOD
                                                  ---------------------     ---------------
                                                      1995         1994           1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>           <C>         <C>
U.S. federal statutory tax rate                       35.0%        35.0%          34.8%
Income tax provision reconciliation:
  Tax at statutory rate                           $ 55,803      $33,919        $19,322
  Irish income subject to lower tax rate           (13,436)      (7,299)        (7,951)
  Change in valuation allowance                          -       (4,265)             -
  State income taxes, net of federal benefit         1,833        1,076            437
  Research and development tax credits                (325)      (1,074)           347
  Foreign Sales Corporation                         (3,200)        (731)             -
  Amortization of goodwill                             503          503            500
  Net foreign tax in excess of (less than)
    U.S. federal statutory tax rate                 (1,076)         247           (203)
  Foreign tax credits (utilized) unutilized              -            -         (1,444)
  Other, net                                            63           39             60
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total income tax provision                    $ 40,165      $22,415        $11,068
===========================================================================================
</TABLE>


                                       44
<PAGE>   46
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes includes the
following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              1995           1994           1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>            <C>
Pretax income:
  Domestic                                $ 76,230        $35,621        $ 8,228
  Foreign                                   83,205         61,290         47,297
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          $159,435        $96,911        $55,525
================================================================================
</TABLE>


The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              1995           1994           1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>            <C>
Current:
  Federal                                  $32,860        $18,479        $ 3,884
  Foreign                                   16,734         10,576          8,788
  State                                      2,820          1,665            670
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current                              $52,414        $30,720        $13,342
================================================================================

Deferred (prepaid):
  Federal                                 $(10,887)       $(7,601)       $(2,313)
  Foreign                                   (1,362)          (704)            39
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred (prepaid)                  $(12,249)       $(8,305)       $(2,274)
================================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company's practice is to reinvest indefinitely the earnings of certain
international subsidiaries. Accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been
provided for approximately $277,308,000 of unremitted earnings of international
subsidiaries.

For the Company's fiscal years ended October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
deferred income taxes reflect the tax effects of differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income
tax purposes. A deferred tax asset must be recognized for the tax benefit of
deductible temporary differences, net operating losses, net capital losses and
tax credit carryovers. A valuation allowance is recognized if it is "more
likely than not" that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be
realized. The Company maintains a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets,
which was $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994. The
Company believes that the realization of deferred tax assets was not assured
for book and tax capital losses and book basis foreign tax credits. For tax
purposes, the Company has a capital loss carryforward of approximately
$6,453,000 expiring through the year 2000, principally in 1997.



                                       45
<PAGE>   47
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)


The significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the fiscal years ended October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994 are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 1995           1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>
Deferred tax assets:
  Inventory reserves                                         $ 18,309       $ 12,261
  Capital loss carryover                                        8,513          8,513
  Deferred income on shipments to domestic distributors         7,898          5,254
  Reserves for employee benefits                                3,780          2,890
  Restricted stock                                              2,031          2,123
  Alternative Minimum Tax carryover                                 -          1,764
  Intercompany profits in foreign inventories                   5,335          1,709
  Reserve for bad debts                                         1,171          1,650
  Foreign tax credits                                           2,301          1,522
  Other                                                         6,351          3,314
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total gross deferred tax assets                            55,689         41,000
    Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets               (10,035)       (10,035)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total deferred tax assets                              $ 45,654       $ 30,965
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
  Depreciation                                               $(11,043)      $ (8,603)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total gross deferred liabilities                         $(11,043)      $ (8,603)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Net deferred tax assets                                $ 34,611       $ 22,362
====================================================================================
</TABLE>


The components of the provision for deferred income taxes for the fiscal year
ended October 30, 1993 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                          <C>
Components of deferred (prepaid) tax provision (benefit):
  Tax depreciation in excess of (less than) book depreciation                $(2,064)
  General business tax credits                                                 1,814
  Inventory reserves                                                             878
  Deferred income on shipments to domestic distributors                         (716)
  Restricted stock                                                               583
  Net decrease (increase) in intercompany profits in
    foreign inventories                                                         (431)
  Foreign tax credits                                                           (429)
  Reserves for employee benefits                                                (154)
  Restructuring reserves                                                           -
  Other, net                                                                  (1,755)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total provision for deferred (prepaid) income taxes                      $(2,274)
====================================================================================
</TABLE>


                                       46
<PAGE>   48
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


Quarterly financial information for fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994 (thousands of
dollars except as noted):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     4Q95       3Q95       2Q95       1Q95       4Q94       3Q94       2Q94       1Q94
======================================================================================================================
<S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Net sales                         257,194    246,301    230,046    208,005    203,301    197,058    192,027    181,088
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cost of sales                     126,591    121,183    113,652    103,145    101,457     99,890     98,508     94,593
Gross margin                      130,603    125,118    116,394    104,860    101,844     97,168     93,519     86,495
  % of sales                           51%        51%        51%        50%        50%        49%        49%        48%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses:
  Research and development         35,714     35,035     33,266     30,250     29,048     27,205     26,360     24,256
  Selling, marketing, general
    and administrative             48,306     47,374     45,592     43,671     43,807     43,333     42,204     40,997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating expenses           84,020     82,409     78,858     73,921     72,855     70,538     68,564     65,253
  % of sales                           33%        33%        34%        36%        36%        36%        36%        36%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                   46,583     42,709     37,536     30,939     28,989     26,630     24,955     21,242
  % of sales                           18%        17%        16%        15%        14%        14%        13%        12%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nonoperating expenses (income):
  Interest expense                    959        938      1,022      1,282      1,694      1,796      1,829      1,830
  Interest income                  (2,200)    (1,721)    (1,991)    (2,191)    (2,106)    (1,535)      (931)      (593)
  Other                               208        562        732        732        884        644        828        565          
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total nonoperating expenses
  (income)                         (1,033)      (221)      (237)      (177)       472        905      1,726      1,802
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes         47,616     42,930     37,773     31,116     28,517     25,725     23,229     19,440
  % of sales                           19%        17%        16%        15%        14%        13%        12%        11%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes         12,482     11,149      9,066      7,468      6,844      6,046      5,345      4,180
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                         35,134     31,781     28,707     23,648     21,673     19,679     17,884     15,260
  % of sales                           14%        13%        12%        11%        11%        10%         9%         8%
  Per share                           .29        .27        .24        .20        .19        .17        .15        .13
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares used to compute
  earnings per share 
  (in thousands)                  120,365    119,777    118,368    117,647    117,113    116,228    115,607    114,683
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       47
<PAGE>   49
ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The response to this item is contained in part under the caption "EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY" in Part I hereof, and the remainder is contained in
the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
on March 12, 1996 (the "1996 Proxy Statement") under the caption "Election of
Directors" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1996 Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation," "Executive Compensation,"
"Severance and Other Agreements," "Approval of Amendment to 1988 Stock Option
Plan" and "Approval of Amendment to 1991 Restricted Stock Plan," and is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1996 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1996 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Transactions with Directors," and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                       48
<PAGE>   50

                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The following consolidated financial statements are included in Item 8:

         -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended October 28,
              1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
         -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of October 28, 1995, October 29,
              1994 and October 30, 1993
         -  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
              October 28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993
         -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended October
              28, 1995, October 29, 1994 and   October 30, 1993

(a) 2.     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

     The following consolidated financial statement schedules are included in
     Item 14(d):

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

     All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
     not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
     the schedule, or because the information required is included in the
     consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

(a) 3.     LISTING OF EXHIBITS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     EXHIBIT
       NO.                               DESCRIPTION
     -------                             -----------
<S>  <C>       <C>
      3-1      Restated Articles of Organization of Analog Devices, Inc., as
               amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
               fiscal quarter ended April 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

      3-2      By-laws of Analog Devices, Inc. as amended, filed as an exhibit
               to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31,
               1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

      4-1      Rights Agreement, as amended, between Analog Devices, Inc. and
               The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent, filed as an
               exhibit to a Form 8 filed on June 27, 1989 amending the
               Registration Statement on Form 8-A relating to Common Stock
               Purchase Rights, and incorporated herein by reference.

      4-2      Indenture dated as of March 1, 1993 between Analog Devices, Inc.
               and The First National Bank of Boston, filed as an exhibit to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994
               and incorporated herein by reference.

      4-3      Indenture dated as of December 18, 1995 between Analog Devices,
               Inc. and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, filed
               herewith.

*     4-4      Analog Devices, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as an
               exhibit to a Form S-8 filed on   December 8, 1995 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

*    10-1      Bonus Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed as an exhibit to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994
               and incorporated herein by reference.
</TABLE>


                                       49
<PAGE>   51
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     EXHIBIT
       NO.                              DESCRIPTION
     -------                            -----------
<S>  <C>       <C>
*     10-2     1978 Restricted Stock Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended,
               filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended November 3, 1990 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-3     1991 Restricted Stock Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed as an
               exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               November 2, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-4     1980 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed
               as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended October 29, 1988 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-5     1988 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed
               as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-6     1989 Director Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as
               amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended November 2, 1991 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

*     10-7     1992 Director Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed as an
               exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-8     1994 Director Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed as
               an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

      10-9     Lease agreement dated February 13, 1970 between Analog Devices,
               Inc. and the trustees of Campanelli Investment Trust, relating to
               the premises at 30 Perwal Street, Westwood, Massachusetts, filed
               as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10-10     Amended and restated lease agreement dated May 1, 1992 between
               Analog Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Everett Street Trust
               relating to the premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood,
               Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for
               the fiscal year ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

     10-11     Guaranty dated as of May 1, 1994 between Analog Devices, Inc. and
               Metropolitan Life Insurance Company relating to the premises at 3
               Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to
               the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30,
               1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10-12     Letter Agreement dated as of May 18, 1994 between Analog Devices,
               Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company relating to the
               premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as an
               exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
               April 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10-13     Reimbursement Agreement dated May 18, 1992 between Analog
               Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Everett Street Trust, filed as
               an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10-14     Lease agreement dated August 8, 1990 between Precision
               Monolithics, Inc. and Bourns, Inc. relating to the premises at
               1525 Comstock Road, Santa Clara, California, filed as an exhibit
               to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3,
               1990 and incorporated herein by reference.

     10-15     Lease agreement dated August 8, 1990, as amended, between
               Precision Monolithics, Inc. and Bourns, Inc. relating to the
               premises at 1500 Space Park Drive, Santa Clara, California, filed
               as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended November 3, 1990 and incorporated herein by reference.
</TABLE>



                                       50
<PAGE>   52
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     EXHIBIT
       NO.                                DESCRIPTION
     -------                              -----------
<S>  <C>
      10-16    Credit Agreement dated as of March 12, 1993 among Analog Devices,
               Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, Bank of
               America National Trust and Savings Association, Continental Bank,
               N.A., The First National Bank of Boston and Morgan Guaranty Trust
               Company of New York, as Agent, filed as an exhibit to the
               Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 1, 1993 and
               incorporated herein by reference.

      10-17    Amendment No. 1 dated as of May 18, 1993 to the Company's Credit
               Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to the
               Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 1993
               and incorporated herein by reference.

      10-18    Amendment No. 2 dated as of September 8, 1994 to the Company's
               Credit Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994
               and incorporated herein by reference.

      10-19    Term loan agreement dated as of November 12, 1991 between Analog
               Devices, Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston, filed as an
               exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               November 2, 1991 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-20    Form of Employee Retention Agreement, as amended, filed as an
               exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
               October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-21    Employee Change in Control Severance Policy of Analog Devices,
               Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's 10-K for
               the fiscal year ended October 30, 1993 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

*     10-22    Senior Management Change in Control Severance Policy of Analog
               Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's
               10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1993 and incorporated
               herein by reference.

      10-23    Warrant Agreement dated as of August 8, 1990 between Analog
               Devices, Inc. and Bourns, Inc., filed as an exhibit to the
               Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 3, 1990
               and incorporated herein by reference.

*     10-24    Description of Consulting Agreement between Analog Devices, Inc.
               and John L. Doyle, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended November 2, 1991 and incorporated
               herein by reference.

*     10-25    Letter agreement between Analog Devices, Inc. and Jerald G.
               Fishman dated December 15, 1994 relating to acceleration of stock
               options and restricted stock awards upon termination of
               employment, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for
               the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by
               reference.

**    10-26    Option Agreement dated as of May 16, 1995 between Analog Devices
               B.V. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd., filed
               as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
               ended July 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

**    10-27    Wafer Production Agreement dated as of May 16, 1995 between
               Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd. and Analog
               Devices B.V., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for
               the fiscal quarter ended July 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by
               reference

      10-28    Lease Agreement dated June 16, 1995 between Analog Devices, Inc.
               and Ferrari Brothers, relating to the premises at 610 Weddell
               Drive, Sunnyvale, California, filed herewith.
</TABLE>



                                       51
<PAGE>   53
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     EXHIBIT
       NO.                    DESCRIPTION
     -------                  -----------
     <S>       <C>
      21       Subsidiaries of the Company, filed herewith.

      23       Consent of Ernst & Young, filed herewith.

      27       Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>

*      Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements required to
       be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

**     Confidential treatment has been granted as to certain portions of these
       Exhibits.

(b)    REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    The Company filed no reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission during the fiscal quarter ended October 28, 1995.





                                       52
<PAGE>   54
                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
 (Registrant)

By:  /s/  Ray Stata                         By:  /s/  Joseph E. McDonough
     -----------------------------               -------------------------------
     Ray Stata                                   Joseph E. McDonough
     Chairman of the Board and                   Vice President-Finance
     Chief Executive Officer                     and Chief Financial Officer
     (Principal Executive Officer)               (Principal Financial and
                                                 Accounting Officer)


Date: January 25, 1996                      Date: January 25, 1996
      ----------------------------                ------------------------------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          NAME                           TITLE                        DATE
          ----                           -----                        ----
<S>                            <C>                              <C>
/s/  Ray Stata                 Chairman of the Board and        January 25, 1996
- --------------------------      Chief Executive Officer         ----------------
     Ray Stata

/s/  Jerald G. Fishman                 President,               January 25, 1996
- --------------------------      Chief Operating Officer         ----------------
     Jerald G. Fishman                and Director


/s/  John L. Doyle                      Director                January 25, 1996
- --------------------------                                      ----------------
     John L. Doyle

/s/  Samuel H. Fuller                   Director                January 25, 1996
- --------------------------                                      ----------------
     Samuel H. Fuller

/s/  Philip L. Lowe                     Director                January 25, 1996
- --------------------------                                      ----------------
     Philip L. Lowe

/s/  Gordon C. McKeague                 Director                January 25, 1996
- --------------------------                                      ----------------
     Gordon C. McKeague

/s/  Joel Moses                         Director                January 25, 1996
- --------------------------                                      ----------------
     Joel Moses

/s/  Lester C. Thurow                   Director                January 25, 1996
- --------------------------                                      ----------------
     Lester C. Thurow
</TABLE>





                                       53
<PAGE>   55
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                          YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995

                                   ITEM 14(D)

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


                                       54
<PAGE>   56
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

      YEARS ENDED OCTOBER 28, 1995, OCTOBER 29, 1994 AND OCTOBER 30, 1993
                                  (THOUSANDS)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           BALANCE AT            ADDITION                             BALANCE AT
                                          BEGINNING OF          CHARGED TO                              END OF
DESCRIPTION                                  PERIOD              EXPENSE            DEDUCTIONS          PERIOD
- -----------                                  ------              -------            ----------          ------
<S>                                       <C>                   <C>                 <C>               <C>
INVENTORY RESERVE:

Year ended October 30, 1993                 $  2,814            $      -             $  1,017          $   1,797
                                            ========            ========             ========          =========
Year ended October 29, 1994                 $  1,797            $  1,281             $      -          $   3,078
                                            ========            ========             ========          =========
Year ended October 28, 1995                 $  3,078            $  1,399             $      -          $   4,477
                                            ========            ========             ========          =========

ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS:

Year ended October 30, 1993                 $  2,138            $    466             $    209          $   2,395
                                            ========            ========             ========          =========
Year ended October 29, 1994                 $  2,395            $  4,477             $    469          $   6,403
                                            ========            ========             ========          =========
Year ended October 28, 1995                 $  6,403            $    435             $  2,399          $   4,439
                                            ========            ========             ========          =========
</TABLE>

                                       55

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.3
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>INDENTURE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1


                                                                     Exhibit 4-3

================================================================================




                                ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                                         AND

                         STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY
                                       Trustee



                                ____________________

                                      INDENTURE

                            Dated as of December 18, 1995

                                ____________________


                                    $200,000,000

                        (With an Over-Allotment option for an
                               Additional $30,000,000)

             3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000

================================================================================

<PAGE>   2
                                                                           





                                Analog Devices, Inc.

              Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act
              of 1939 and Indenture, dated as of December 18, 1995


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              Trust Indenture                                Indenture
                Act Section                                   Section 
              ---------------                                ---------
      <S>                                                      <C>
      [SECTION] 310(a)(1)     ............................     6.9
                   (a)(2)     ............................     6.9
                   (a)(3)     ............................     Not Applicable
                   (a)(4)     ............................     Not Applicable
                   (b)        ............................     6.8
                                                               6.1

      [SECTION] 311(a)        ............................     6.13
                   (b)        ............................     6.13

      [SECTION] 312(a)        ............................     7.1
                                                               7.2(a)
                   (b)        ............................     7.2(b)
                   (c)        ............................     7.2(c)

      [SECTION] 313(a)        ............................     7.3(a)
                   (b)        ............................     7.3(a)
                   (c)        ............................     7.3(a)
                   (d)        ............................     7.3(b)

      [SECTION] 314(a)        ............................     7.4
                   (b)        ............................     Not Applicable
                   (c)(1)     ............................     1.2
                   (c)(2)     ............................     1.2
                   (c)(3)     ............................     Not Applicable
                   (d)        ............................     Not Applicable
                   (e)        ............................     1.2

      [SECTION] 315(a)        ............................     6.1(a)
                   (b)        ............................     6.2
                                                               7.3(a)(6)
                   (c)        ............................     6.1(b)
                   (d)        ............................     6.1(c)
                   (d)(1)     ............................     6.1(a)(1)
                   (d)(2)     ............................     6.1(c)(2)
                   (d)(3)     ............................     6.1(c)(3)
                   (e)        ............................     5.14

</TABLE>

<PAGE>   3

<TABLE>
      <S>                                                      <C>

      [SECTION] 316(a)(1)(A)  ............................     5.12
                   (a)(1)(B)  ............................     5.13
                   (a)(2)     ............................     Not Applicable
                   (b)        ............................     5.8

      [SECTION] 317(a)(1)     ............................     5.3
                   (a)(2)     ............................     5.4
                   (b)        ............................     10.3

      [SECTION] 318(a)        ............................     1.7


</TABLE>














____________________

Note:  This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be
deemed to be a part of the Indenture.


<PAGE>   4

<TABLE>

                                 TABLE OF CONTENTS*
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Page
                                                                      ----
         <S>                                                           <C>
         Parties...................................................    1
         Recitals of the Company...................................    1

         ARTICLE 1      DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS
                             OF GENERAL APPLICATION.................   1

              Section 1.1    Definitions............................   1
                   Act..............................................   2
                   Affiliate........................................   2
                   Authenticating Agent.............................   2
                   Board of Directors...............................   2
                   Board Resolution.................................   2
                   Business Day.....................................   2
                   Closing Price....................................   3
                   Commission.......................................   3
                   Common Stock.....................................   3
                   Company..........................................   4
                   Company Request or Company Order.................   4
                   Corporate Trust Office...........................   4
                   Corporation......................................   4
                   Defaulted Interest...............................   4
                   Event of Default.................................   4
                   Holder...........................................   4
                   Indenture........................................   4
                   Interest Payment Date............................   4
                   Maturity.........................................   4
                   Officers' Certificate............................   4
                   Opinion of Counsel...............................   5
                   Outstanding......................................   5
                   Paying Agent.....................................   6
                   Person...........................................   6
                   Predecessor Security.............................   6
                   Redemption Date..................................   6
                   Redemption Price.................................   6
                   Regular Record Date..............................   6
                   Responsible Officer..............................   6
                   Security Register and Security Registrar.........   6
                   Senior Indebtedness..............................   6
                   Special Record Date..............................   6
                   Stated Maturity..................................   7
<FN>
         ______________________
         *    Note:  This table of contents shall not, for any 
              purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.

</TABLE>


                                        -i-

<PAGE>   5

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Page 
                                                                      ----
         <S>                                                          <C>
                   Subsidiary.......................................   7
                   Trading Day......................................   7
                   Trustee..........................................   7
                   Trust Indenture Act..............................   7
                   Vice President...................................   7
              Section 1.2    Compliance Certificates and Opinions...   7
              Section 1.3    Form of Documents Delivered to
                             Trustee................................   8
              Section 1.4    Acts of Holders........................   9
              Section 1.5    Notices, Etc., to Trustee and
                             Company................................  11
              Section 1.6    Notice to Holders; Waiver..............  11
              Section 1.7    Conflict with Trust Indenture Act......  12
              Section 1.8    Effect of Headings and Table of
                             Contents...............................  12
              Section 1.9    Successors and Assigns.................  12
              Section 1.10   Separability Clause....................  12
              Section 1.11   Benefits of Indenture..................  12
              Section 1.12   Governing Law..........................  12
              Section 1.13   Legal Holidays.........................  12

         ARTICLE 2      SECURITY FORMS..............................  13

              Section 2.1    Forms Generally........................  13
              Section 2.2    Form of Face of Security...............  13
              Section 2.3    Form of Reverse of Security............  15
              Section 2.4    Form of Trustee's Certificate of
                             Authentication.........................  19
              Section 2.5    Form of Conversion Notice..............  19

         ARTICLE 3      THE SECURITIES..............................  21

              Section 3.1    Title and Terms........................  21
              Section 3.2    Denominations..........................  22
              Section 3.3    Execution, Authentication, Delivery
                             and Dating.............................  22
              Section 3.4    Temporary Securities...................  22
              Section 3.5    Registration; Registration of
                             Transfer and Exchange..................  23
              Section 3.6    Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and
                             Stolen Securities......................  24
              Section 3.7    Payment of Interest; Interest Rights
                             Preserved..............................  25
              Section 3.8    Persons Deemed Owners..................  27
              Section 3.9    Cancellation...........................  27
              Section 3.10   Computation of Interest................  27


</TABLE>



                                       -ii-

<PAGE>   6

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Page 
                                                                      ----
         <S>                                                          <C>
         ARTICLE 4      SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE..................  27

              Section 4.1    Satisfaction and Discharge of
                             Indenture..............................  27
              Section 4.2    Application of Trust Money.............  29

         ARTICLE 5      REMEDIES....................................  29

              Section 5.1    Events of Default......................  29
              Section 5.2    Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission
                             and Annulment..........................  31
              Section 5.3    Collection of Indebtedness and Suits
                             for Enforcement by Trustee.............  32
              Section 5.4    Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.......  33
              Section 5.5    Trustee May Enforce Claims
                             Without Possession of Securities.......  34
              Section 5.6    Application of Money Collected.........  34
              Section 5.7    Limitation on Suits....................  34
              Section 5.8    Unconditional Right of Holders to
                             Receive Principal, Premium and
                             Interest and to Convert................  35
              Section 5.9    Restoration of Rights and Remedies.....  36
              Section 5.10   Rights and Remedies Cumulative.........  36
              Section 5.11   Delay or Omission Not Waiver...........  36
              Section 5.12   Control by Holders.....................  36
              Section 5.13   Waiver of Past Defaults................  37
              Section 5.14   Undertaking for Costs..................  37
              Section 5.15   Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.......  38

         ARTICLE 6      THE TRUSTEE.................................  38

              Section 6.1    Certain Duties and Responsibilities....  38
              Section 6.2    Notice of Defaults.....................  39
              Section 6.3    Certain Rights of Trustee..............  40
              Section 6.4    Not Responsible for Recitals
                             or Issuance of Securities..............  41
              Section 6.5    May Hold Securities....................  41
              Section 6.6    Money Held in Trust....................  41
              Section 6.7    Compensation and Reimbursement.........  42
              Section 6.8    Disqualification; Conflicting
                             Interests..............................  42
              Section 6.9    Corporate Trustee Required;
                             Eligibility............................  42
              Section 6.10   Resignation and Removal; Appointment
                             of Successor...........................  43
              Section 6.11   Acceptance of Appointment by
                             Successor..............................  44
              Section 6.12   Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or
                             Succession to Business.................  45

</TABLE>



                                       -iii-

<PAGE>   7

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Page 
                                                                      ----
         <S>                                                          <C>
              Section 6.13   Preferential Collection of Claims
                             Against Company........................  45
              Section 6.14   Appointment of Authenticating Agent....  45

         ARTICLE 7      HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE
                        AND COMPANY.................................  47

              Section 7.1    Company to Furnish Trustee Names and
                             Addresses of Holders...................  47
              Section 7.2    Preservation of Information;
                             Communications to Holders..............  48
              Section 7.3    Reports by Trustee.....................  48
              Section 7.4    Reports by Company.....................  48

         ARTICLE 8      CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE,
                        TRANSFER OR LEASE...........................  49

              Section 8.1    Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only
                             on Certain Terms.......................  49
              Section 8.2    Successor Substituted..................  50

         ARTICLE 9      SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES.....................  50

              Section 9.1    Supplemental Indentures Without
                             Consent of Holders.....................  50
              Section 9.2    Supplemental Indentures with Consent
                             of Holders.............................  51
              Section 9.3    Execution of Supplemental Indentures...  52
              Section 9.4    Effect of Supplemental Indentures......  52
              Section 9.5    Conformity with Trust Indenture Act....  52
              Section 9.6    Reference in Securities to
                             Supplemental Indentures................  52

         ARTICLE 10     COVENANTS...................................  53

              Section 10.1   Payment of Principal, Premium and
                             Interest...............................  53
              Section 10.2   Maintenance of Office or Agency........  53
              Section 10.3   Money for Security Payments to be
                             Held in Trust..........................  53
              Section 10.4   Existence..............................  55
              Section 10.5   Maintenance of Properties..............  55
              Section 10.6   Payment of Taxes and Other Claims......  56
              Section 10.7   Statement by Officers as to Default....  56
              Section 10.8   Waiver of Certain Covenants............  56

         ARTICLE 11     REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES....................  57

              Section 11.1   Right of Redemption....................  57
              Section 11.2   Applicability of Article...............  57

</TABLE>


                                       -iv-

<PAGE>   8

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Page 
                                                                      ----
         <S>                                                          <C>
              Section 11.3   Election to Redeem; Notice to
                             Trustee................................  57
              Section 11.4   Selection by Trustee of Securities to
                             Be Redeemed............................  57
              Section 11.5   Notice of Redemption...................  58
              Section 11.6   Deposit of Redemption Price............  59
              Section 11.7   Securities Payable on Redemption
                             Date...................................  59
              Section 11.8   Securities Redeemed in Part............  60

         ARTICLE 12     CONVERSION OF SECURITIES....................  60

              Section 12.1   Conversion Privilege and Conversion
                             Price..................................  60
              Section 12.2   Exercise of Conversion Privilege.......  61
              Section 12.3   Fractions of Shares....................  62
              Section 12.4   Adjustment of Conversion Price.........  62
              Section 12.5   Notice of Adjustments of Conversion
                             Price..................................  67
              Section 12.6   Notice of Certain Corporate Action.....  68
              Section 12.7   Company to Reserve Common Stock........  69
              Section 12.8   Taxes on Conversions...................  69
              Section 12.9   Covenant as to Common Stock............  69
              Section 12.10  Cancellation of Converted Securities...  69
              Section 12.11  Provisions in Case of
                             Consolidation, Merger or Sale of
                             Assets.................................  69

         ARTICLE 13     SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES.................  70

              Section 13.1   Securities Subordinated to Senior
                             Indebtedness...........................  70
              Section 13.2   No Payments in Certain
                             Circumstances; Payment Over of
                             Proceeds Upon Dissolution, Etc.........  71
              Section 13.3   Notice to Trustee of Specified
                             Events; Reliance on Certificate of
                             Liquidating Agent......................  73
              Section 13.4   Trustee to Effectuate Subordination....  74
              Section 13.5   Trustee Not Charged with Knowledge
                             of Prohibition.........................  75
              Section 13.6   Rights of Trustee as Holder of
                             Senior Indebtedness....................  75
              Section 13.7   Trustee Not Fiduciary for Holders
                             of Senior Indebtedness.................  75
              Section 13.8   Article Applicable to Paying Agent.....  76


</TABLE>


                                        -v-

<PAGE>   9

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                      Page 
                                                                      ----
         <S>                                                          <C>
         ARTICLE 14     REPURCHASE OF SECURITIES AT THE OPTION
                        OF THE HOLDER UPON A CHANGE IN CONTROL......  76

              Section 14.1   Right to Require Repurchase............  76
              Section 14.2   Notices; Method of Exercising
                             Repurchase Right, Etc..................  76
              Section 14.3   Certain Definitions....................  78

         TESTIMONIUM................................................  81

         SIGNATURES AND SEALS.......................................  81

         ACKNOWLEDGMENTS............................................  82



</TABLE>











                                       -vi-

<PAGE>   10

              INDENTURE, dated as of December 18, 1995, between Analog
         Devices, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the
         laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts (herein called the
         "Company"), having its principal office at One Technology Way,
         Norwood, Massachusetts 02062, and State Street Bank and Trust
         Company, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee").


                               RECITALS OF THE COMPANY


              The Company has duly authorized the creation of an issue of
         its 3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000
         (herein called the "Securities") of substantially the tenor and
         amount hereinafter set forth, and to provide therefor the Company
         has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture.

              All things necessary to make the Securities, when executed by
         the Company and authenticated and delivered hereunder and duly
         issued by the Company, the valid obligations of the Company, and
         to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in
         accordance with their and its terms, have been done.

              NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:

              For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of
         the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted
         and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders
         of the Securities, as follows:


                                      ARTICLE 1

                          DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS
                               OF GENERAL APPLICATION

              Section 1.1  Definitions.
                           -----------

              For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise
         expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:

                   (1)  the terms defined in this Article have the meanings
         assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as
         the singular;

<PAGE>   11

                   (2)  all other terms used herein which are defined in
         the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein,
         have the meanings assigned to them therein;

                   (3)  all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein
         have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally
         accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein
         expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting
         principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted
         hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally
         accepted at the date of this instrument; and

                   (4)  the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and
         other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole
         and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.

              Certain terms, used principally in Articles Six, Twelve and
         Fourteen, are defined in that Article.

                   "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the
         meaning specified in Section 1.4.

                   "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other
         Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or
         under direct or indirect common control with such specified
         Person.  For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used
         with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the
         management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly,
         whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or
         otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have
         meanings correlative to the foregoing.

                   "Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by
         the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate
         Securities.

                   "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors
         of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.

                   "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution
         certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the
         Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to
         be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and
         delivered to the Trustee.

                   "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
         Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking
         institutions in the City of New York or the city in which the
         Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is located are authorized or
         obligated by law or executive order to close.


                                        -2-

<PAGE>   12

                   "Closing Price" for any security for any day means the
         last reported sale price of such security regular way on such day
         or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such day, the
         average of the reported closing bid and asked prices regular way
         on such day, in either case on the New York Stock Exchange or, if
         the security is not listed or admitted to trading on such
         exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which
         the security is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or
         admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on the
         Nasdaq National Market or Nasdaq or, if the security is not listed
         or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange or
         quoted on such National Market or Nasdaq, the average of the
         closing bid and asked prices in the over-the-counter market as
         furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm selected from
         time to time by the Company for that purpose.  If the security is
         not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities
         exchange, quoted on such National Market or Nasdaq or listed in
         any list of bid and asked prices in the over-the-counter market,
         "Closing Price" shall mean the fair market value of the security
         as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors and
         evidenced by a Board Resolution.

                   "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange
         Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the
         Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or, if at any time after the
         execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and
         performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture
         Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.

                   "Common Stock" includes any stock of any class of the
         Company which has no preference in respect of dividends or of
         amounts payable in the event of any voluntary or involuntary
         liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company and which is
         not subject to redemption by the Company.  However, subject to the
         provisions of Section 12.11, shares issuable on conversion of
         Securities and shares used to pay the Repurchase Price pursuant to
         Section 14.1 shall include only shares of the class designated as
         Common Stock of the Company at the date of this instrument or
         shares of any class or classes resulting from any reclassification
         or reclassifications thereof and which have no preference in
         respect of dividends or of amounts payable in the event of any
         voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of
         the Company and which are not subject to redemption by the
         Company; provided that if at any time there shall be more than one
         such resulting class, the shares of each such class then so
         issuable shall be substantially in the proportion which the total
         number of shares of such class resulting from all such
         reclassifications bears to the total number of shares of all such
         classes resulting from all such reclassifications.



                                        -3-
<PAGE>   13


                   "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the
         first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall
         have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this
         Indenture and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor
         Person.

                   "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written
         request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman
         of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its
         Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Secretary or an Assistant
         Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.

                   "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of
         the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust
         business shall be administered.  Initially, the Corporate Trust
         Office of the Trustee is located at 225 Franklin Street, Boston,
         Massachusetts  02110, Attn: Corporate Trust Department.

                   "Corporation" means a corporation, association, company,
         joint-stock company or business trust.

                   "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in
         Section 3.7.

                   "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in
         Section 5.1.

                   "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is
         registered in the Security Register.

                   "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed
         or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one
         or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to
         the applicable provisions hereof.

                   "Interest Payment Date" means the Stated Maturity of an
         installment of interest on the Securities.

                   "Maturity", when used with respect to any Security,
         means the date on which the principal of such Security becomes due
         and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated
         Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption,
         obligation to repurchase or otherwise.

                   "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by
         the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President, and
         by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or an
         Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee.




                                        -4-
<PAGE>   14


                   "Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel,
         who may be counsel for the Company, and who shall be acceptable to
         the Trustee.

                   "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities,
         means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore
         authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:

                        (i)  Securities theretofore cancelled by the
              Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;

                       (ii)  Securities for whose payment or redemption
              money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited
              with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company)
              in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company
              (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the
              Holders of such Securities; PROVIDED that, if such Securities
              are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly
              given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor
              satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and

                      (iii)  Securities which have been paid pursuant to
              Section 3.6 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other
              Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to
              this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of
              which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof
              satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona
              fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid
              obligations of the Company;


              PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in determining whether the Holders of
         the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have
         given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
         consent or waiver hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or
         any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the
         Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed
         not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the
         Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request,
         demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only
         securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so
         disregarded.  Securities so owned which have been pledged in good
         faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to
         the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with
         respect to such securities and that the pledgee is not the Company
         or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the
         Company or of such other obligor.  The Trustee may require, and
         may conclusively rely upon, an Officers' Certificate as to whether
         or not any Securities are so owned.



                                        -5-

<PAGE>   15


                   "Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the
         Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest
         on any Securities on behalf of the Company.

                   "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership,
         joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or
         any agency or political subdivision thereof.

                   "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means
         every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same
         debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the
         purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and
         delivered under Section 3.6 in exchange for or in lieu of a
         mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to
         evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen
         Security.

                   "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any
         Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption
         by or pursuant to this Indenture.

                   "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any
         Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be
         redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.

                   "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any
         Interest Payment Date means the May 15 or November 15 (whether or
         not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such
         Interest Payment Date.

                   "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the
         Trustee, means any officer assigned to and working in the
         corporate trust department of the Trustee, or any other officer of
         the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those
         performed by any of the above designated officers and also means,
         with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other
         officer to whom such matter is referred because of his or her
         knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.

                   "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the
         respective meanings specified in Section 3.5.

                   "Senior Indebtedness" shall have the meaning set forth
         in Section 13.1.

                   "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted
         Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to
         Section 3.7.




                                        -6-
<PAGE>   16


                   "Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any
         Security or any installment of interest thereon, means the date
         specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the
         principal of such Security or such installment of interest is due
         and payable.

                   "Subsidiary" means a corporation more than 50% of the
         outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or
         indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other subsidiaries,
         or by the Company and one or more other subsidiaries.  For the
         purposes of this definition, "voting stock" means stock which
         ordinarily has voting power for the election of directors, whether
         at all times or only so long as no senior class of stock has such
         voting power by reason of any contingency.

                   "Trading Day" means, with respect to any security, each
         Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, other than any
         day on which securities are not traded on the exchange or market
         on which such security is traded.

                   "Trustee" means the person named as the "Trustee" in the
         first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall
         have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this
         Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean such successor
         Trustee.

                   "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of
         1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was
         executed, except as provided in Section 9.5.

                   "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company
         or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not
         designated by a number or a word or words added before or after
         the title "vice president".

              Section 1.2  Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
                           ------------------------------------

              Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee
         to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the
         Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate
         stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in
         this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied
         with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such
         counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied
         with, except that in the case of any such application or request
         as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically
         required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such
         particular application or request, no additional certificate or
         opinion need be furnished.



                                        -7-

<PAGE>   17

              Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with
         a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall
         include:

              (1)  a statement that each individual signing such
         certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the
         definitions herein relating thereto;

              (2)  a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the
         examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions
         contained in such certificate or opinion are based;

              (3)  a statement that, in the opinion of each such
         individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is
         necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to
         whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with;
         and

              (4)  a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such
         individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.

              Section 1.3  Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
                           --------------------------------------

              In any case where several matters are required to be
         certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person,
         it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or
         covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be
         so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person
         may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and
         one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such
         Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or
         several documents.

              Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may
         be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a
         certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless
         such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should
         know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with
         respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is
         based are erroneous.  Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel
         may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a
         certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or
         officers of the Company stating that the information with respect
         to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company,
         unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care
         should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations
         with respect to such matters are erroneous.





                                        -8-
<PAGE>   18


              Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or
         more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements,
         opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but
         need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.

              Section 1.4  Acts of Holders.
                           ---------------

              (a)  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
         consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be
         given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one
         or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such
         Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and,
         except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall
         become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered
         to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the
         Company.  Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied
         therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as
         the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments.
         Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing
         appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of
         this Indenture and (subject to Section 6.1) conclusive in favor of
         the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in
         this Section.

              (b)  The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any
         such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a
         witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public
         or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of
         deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or
         writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof.  Where such
         execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his
         individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also
         constitute sufficient proof of his authority.  The fact and date
         of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the
         authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in
         any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.

              (c)  The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the
         Security Register.

              (d)  Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
         consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall
         bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of
         every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or
         in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything
         done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company
         in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is
         made upon such Security.




                                        -9-
<PAGE>   19


              (e)  Except for matters arising under Article V (in which
         event any record date shall be set by the Trustee), the Company
         may set any day as a record date for the purpose of determining
         the Holders of Outstanding Securities entitled to give, make or
         take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
         consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this
         Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders of Securities.  If
         any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Holders of
         Outstanding Securities on such record date, and no other Holders,
         shall be entitled to take the relevant action, whether or not such
         Holders remain Holders after such record date; provided that no
         such action shall be effective hereunder unless taken on or prior
         to the applicable Expiration Date (as defined below) by Holders of
         the requisite principal amounts of Outstanding Securities on such
         record date.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
         prevent the Trustee from setting a new record date for any action
         for which a record date has previously been set pursuant to this
         paragraph (whereupon the record date previously set shall
         automatically and with no action by any Person be cancelled and of
         no effect), and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
         render ineffective any action taken by Holders of the requisite
         principal amount of Outstanding Securities on the date such action
         is taken.  Promptly after receiving written notice of a record
         date set by the Company pursuant to this paragraph, the Trustee,
         at the Company's expense, shall cause notice of such record date,
         the proposed action by Holders and the applicable Expiration Date
         to be given to the Company in writing and to each Holder of
         Securities in the manner set forth in Section 1.6.

              With respect to any record date set pursuant to this
         Section 1.4(e), the party hereto which sets such record date may
         designate any day as the "Expiration Date" and from time to time
         may change the Expiration Date to any earlier or later day;
         provided that no such change shall be effective unless notice of
         the proposed new Expiration Date is given to the other party
         hereto in writing, and to each Holder of Securities in the manner
         set forth in Section 1.6, on or prior to the existing Expiration
         Date.  If an Expiration Date is not designated with respect to any
         record date set pursuant to this Section 1.4(e), the party hereto
         which set such record date shall be deemed to have initially
         designated the 180th day after such record date as the Expiration
         Date with respect thereto, subject to its right to change the
         Expiration Date as provided in this paragraph.  Notwithstanding
         the foregoing, no Expiration Date shall be later than the 180th
         day after the applicable record date.




                                       -10-
<PAGE>   20


              Section 1.5  Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
                           -------------------------------------

              Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
         consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or
         permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished
         to, or filed with,

              (1)  the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be
         sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished
         or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust
         Office, Attention: 1995 Analog Devices, Inc. Indenture, or

              (2)  the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be
         sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein
         expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage
         prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its
         principal office specified in the first paragraph of this
         instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing
         to the Trustee by the Company.

              Section 1.6  Notice to Holders; Waiver.
                           -------------------------

              Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any
         event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise
         herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class
         postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his
         address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the
         latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed
         for the giving of such notice.  In any case where notice to
         Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice,
         nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder
         shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other
         Holders.  Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner,
         such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to
         receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such
         waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice.  Waivers of notice
         by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall
         not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken
         in reliance upon such waiver.

              In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service
         or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give
         such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with
         the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient
         notification for every purpose hereunder.







                                       -11-
<PAGE>   21


              Section 1.7  Conflict with Trust Indenture Act.
                           ---------------------------------

              If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with
         another provision hereof which is required to be included in this
         Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act,
         such required provision shall control.

              Section 1.8  Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
                           ----------------------------------------

              The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of
         Contents are for convenience only and shall not effect the
         construction hereof.

              Section 1.9  Successors and Assigns.
                           ----------------------

              All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company
         shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or
         not.

              Section 1.10  Separability Clause.
                           --------------------

              In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities
         shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality
         and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any
         way be affected or impaired thereby.

              Section 1.11  Benefits of Indenture.
                            ---------------------

              Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or
         implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto
         and their successors hereunder, the holders of Senior Indebtedness
         and the Holders of Securities, any benefit or any legal or
         equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.

              Section 1.12  Governing Law.
                            -------------

              This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and
         construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of
         Massachusetts.

              Section 1.13  Legal Holidays.
                            --------------

              In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date
         or Stated Maturity of any security or the last date on which a
         Holder has the right to convert his Securities shall not be a
         Business Day, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this
         Indenture or of the Securities) payment of interest or principal
         (and premium, if any) or conversion of the Securities need not be
         made on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business
         Day with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest


                                       -12-
<PAGE>   22

         Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, or on
         such last day for conversion, PROVIDED that no interest shall
         accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date,
         Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.


                                      ARTICLE 2

                                   SECURITY FORMS

              Section 2.1  Forms Generally.
                           ---------------

              The Securities and the Trustee's certificates of
         authentication shall be in substantially the forms set forth in
         this Article, with such appropriate insertions, omissions,
         substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by
         this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks
         of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon
         as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities
         exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the
         officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their
         execution of the Securities.

              The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or
         engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on steel
         engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner permitted
         by the rules of any Securities exchange on which the Securities
         may be listed, all as determined by the officers executing such
         Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.

              Section 2.2  Form of Face of Security.
                           ------------------------

                                Analog Devices, Inc.

                        3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Note

                                due December 1, 2000

         No.                                          $              
             ------------                               ------------

              Analog Devices, Inc., a corporation duly organized and
         existing under the laws of Massachusetts (herein called the
         "Company", which term includes any successor person under the
         Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received hereby
         promises to pay to _____________, or registered assigns, the
         principal sum of _______________ Dollars on December 1, 2000, and
         to pay interest thereon from December 18, 1995 or from the most
         recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or
         duly provided for, semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each
         year, commencing June 1, 1996, at the rate of 3 1/2% per annum,


                                       -13-
<PAGE>   23



         until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
         The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for,
         on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture,
         be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more
         Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on
         the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the May
         15 or November 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may
         be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest
         not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease
         to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may
         either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one
         or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of
         business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such
         Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof
         shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days
         prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any
         other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any
         securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and
         upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more
         fully provided in said Indenture.  Payment of the principal of
         (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made
         at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose
         in The Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York or the city in
         which the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is located, in
         such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the
         time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private
         debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company
         payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of
         the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the
         Security Register.

              Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this
         Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions
         shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at
         this place.

              Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been
         executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by
         manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any
         benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any
         purpose.

              IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to
         be duly executed under its corporate seal.

         Dated:                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


         Attest: __________________         By: __________________



                                       -14-
<PAGE>   24

              Section 2.3  Form of Reverse of Security.
                           ---------------------------

              This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities
         of the Company designated as its 3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated
         Notes due December 1, 2000 (herein called the "Securities"),
         limited in aggregate principal amount to $200,000,000 (except for
         such additional principal amounts, not to exceed $30,000,000, of
         Securities issued to cover over-allotments in the initial public
         offering of the Securities) issued and to be issued under an
         Indenture, dated as of December 18, 1995 (herein called the
         "Indenture"), between the Company and State Street Bank and Trust
         Company, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term
         includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which
         Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is
         hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations
         of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the
         Trustee, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and the Holders of the
         Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are
         to be, authenticated and delivered.

              Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of the
         Indenture, the Holder of this Security is entitled, at his option,
         at any time after 60 days from the latest date of original
         issuance of the Securities and on or before the close of business
         on December 1, 2000, or in case this Security or a portion hereof
         is called for redemption, then in respect of this Security or such
         portion hereof until and including, but (unless the Company
         defaults in making the payment due upon redemption) not after, the
         close of business on the fifth Business Day prior to the
         Redemption Date, to convert this Security (or any portion of the
         principal amount hereof which is $1,000 or an integral multiple
         thereof), at the principal amount hereof, or of such portion, into
         fully paid and non-assessable shares (calculated as to each
         conversion to the nearest 1/100 of a share) of Common Stock of the
         Company at a conversion price equal to $41 7/8 for each share of
         Common Stock (or at the current adjusted conversion price if an
         adjustment has been made as provided in the Indenture) by
         surrender of this Security, duly endorsed or assigned to the
         Company or in blank, to the Company at its office or agency in The
         Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York or the city in which
         the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is located, accompanied
         by written notice to the Company that the Holder hereof elects to
         convert this Security, or if less than the entire principal amount
         hereof is to be converted, the portion hereof to be converted,
         and, in case such surrender shall be made during the period from
         the close of business on any Regular Record Date next preceding
         any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such
         Interest Payment Date (the "Interest Period"), also accompanied by
         payment in New York Clearing House Funds or other funds acceptable


                                       -15-
<PAGE>   25



         to the Company of an amount equal to the interest payable on such
         Interest Payment Date on the principal amount of this Security
         then being converted; except that in the case of Securities or
         portions thereof that have been called for redemption and,
         pursuant to Section 12.1 of the Indenture, as a result of such
         redemption the right to convert such Securities terminates during
         the Interest Period, any such Securities surrendered for
         conversion during such Interest Period need not be accompanied by
         payment in an amount equal to such interest.  Subject to the
         aforesaid requirement for payment and, in the case of a conversion
         after the Regular Record Date next preceding any Interest Payment
         Date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, to the right of
         the Holder of Record of this Security (or any Predecessor
         Security) at such Regular Record Date to receive an installment of
         interest (with certain exceptions provided in the Indenture), no
         payment or adjustment is to be made on conversion for interest
         accrued hereon or for dividends on the Common Stock issued on
         conversion.  No fractions of shares or scrip representing
         fractions of shares will be issued on conversion, but instead of
         any fractional interest the Company shall pay a cash adjustment as
         provided in the Indenture.  The conversion price is subject to
         adjustment as provided in the Indenture.  In addition, the
         Indenture provides that in case of certain consolidations or
         mergers to which the Company is a party or the transfer of
         substantially all of the assets of the Company, the Indenture
         shall be amended, without the consent of any Holders of
         Securities, so that this Security, if then outstanding, will be
         convertible thereafter, during the period this Security shall be
         convertible as specified above, only into the kind and amount of
         securities, cash and other property receivable upon the
         consolidation, merger or transfer by a holder of the number of
         shares of Common stock into which this Security might have been
         converted immediately prior to such consolidation, merger or
         transfer (assuming such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise
         any rights of election and received per share the kind and amount
         received per share by a plurality of non-electing shares).

              The Securities are subject to redemption upon not less than
         30 days' nor more than 60 days' notice by mail, at any time on or
         after December 1, 1998, as a whole or in part, at the election of
         the Company.  The Redemption Prices (expressed as percentages of
         the principal amount) beginning December 1 of the years indicated
         are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Redemption
                        Year                       Price   
                        ----                     ----------
                        <S>                        <C>
                        1998                       101.4%
                        1999                       100.7%

</TABLE>


                                       -16-
<PAGE>   26





         and thereafter at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the
         principal amount, together in the case of any such redemption with
         accrued interest to the Redemption Date, but interest installments
         whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to such Redemption Date will
         be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more
         Predecessor Securities, of record at the close of business on the
         relevant Record Dates referred to on the face hereof, all as
         provided in the Indenture.

              Upon a Change in Control (as defined in the Indenture), the
         Company will be required to offer to repurchase all or part of the
         Securities at 100% of their principal amount plus accrued
         interest.  The Company shall pay the repurchase price in cash.

              In the event of redemption or conversion of this Security in
         part only, a new Security or Securities for the unredeemed or
         unconverted portion hereof will be issued in the name of the
         Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.

              The indebtedness evidenced by this Security is, to the extent
         provided in the Indenture, subordinate and subject in right of
         payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness,
         and this Security is issued subject to the provisions of the
         Indenture with respect thereto.  Each holder of this Security, by
         accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such
         provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf
         to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to
         effectuate the subordination so provided and (c) appoints the
         Trustee as his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.

              If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, the
         principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in
         the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.

              The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein
         provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights
         and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of
         the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company and
         the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a
         majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the
         time outstanding.  The Indenture also contains provisions
         permitting the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount
         of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the
         Holders of all the Securities, to waive compliance by the Company
         with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults
         under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or
         waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and
         binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this




                                       -17-
<PAGE>   27


         Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of
         transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether
         or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this
         Security.

              No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this
         Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation
         of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the
         principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security
         at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein
         prescribed or to convert this Security as provided in the
         Indenture.

              As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain
         limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is
         registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this
         Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of
         the Company in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York or
         the city in which the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is
         located, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument
         of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security
         Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly
         authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities,
         of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal
         amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or
         transferees.

              The Securities are issuable only in registered form without
         coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple
         thereof.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain
         limitations therein set forth, Securities are exchangeable for a
         like aggregate principal amount of Securities of a different
         authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering
         the same.  

              No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any such
         registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require
         payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental
         charge payable in connection therewith.

              Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of
         transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or
         the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is
         registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not
         this Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor
         any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.

              All terms used in this Security which are defined in the
         Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the
         Indenture.


                                       -18-
<PAGE>   28


              Section 2.4  Form of Trustee's Certificate of
                           --------------------------------
                           Authentication.
                           --------------

              This is one of the Securities referred to in the
         within-mentioned Indenture.



                                     State Street Bank and Trust Company
                                     as Trustee


                                     By ____________________________
                                          Authorized signatory


              Section 2.5  Form of Conversion Notice.  
                           -------------------------

         To Analog Devices, Inc.:

              The undersigned owner of this Security hereby irrevocably
         exercises the option to convert this Security, or portion hereof
         (which is $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) below
         designated, into shares of Common Stock of Analog Devices, Inc.,
         in accordance with the terms of the Indenture referred to in this
         Security, and directs that the certificate or certificates for the
         shares issuable and deliverable upon the conversion, together with
         any check in payment for fractional shares and any Securities
         representing any unconverted principal amount hereof, be issued in
         the name of and delivered to the undersigned, unless a different
         name has been indicated below.  If shares are to be issued in the
         name of a person other than the undersigned, the undersigned will
         pay any transfer taxes payable with respect thereto.  Any amount
         required to be paid by the undersigned on account of interest
         accompanies this Security.

                          Principal Amount to be converted
               (in an integral multiple of $1,000, if less than all):
                              $_______________________







                                       -19-
<PAGE>   29


         FILL IN FOR REGISTRATION OF SHARES:
         ----------------------------------

                                                                           
         ----------------------------------------------------------------------
         Name


                                                                           
         ----------------------------------------------------------------------
         Address


                                                                           
         ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                 please print name and address (including zip code)


                          Please Insert Social Security or
                             Other Taxpayer Identifying
                                       Number


                              _________________________

                              _________________________


         Dated:  ________________     Signature  __________________________     
                                                 (must conform in all
                                                 respects to name of Holder
                                                 appearing on face hereof)


              Fill in for registration of shares of Common stock and
              Securities if to be issued otherwise than to the Holder:


         _____________________________      Social Security or Other
                   (Name)                   Taxpayer Identifying Number:


         _____________________________           
                   (Name)
                                            Signature Guaranteed
                                            By:                       
         _____________________________      Member Signature Guaranty
         please print name and address      Medallion Program
              (including zip code)






                                       -20-
<PAGE>   30

                                      ARTICLE 3

                                   THE SECURITIES

              Section 3.1  Title and Terms.
                           ---------------

              The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be
         authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is limited to
         $200,000,000 (except for such additional principal amounts, not to
         exceed $30,000,000, of Securities issued to cover over-allotments
         in the initial public offering of the Securities), except for
         Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of
         transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities
         pursuant to Section 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 9.6 or 12.2.

              The Securities shall be known and designated as the "3 1/2%
         Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000" of the
         Company.  Their final Stated Maturity shall be December 1, 2000,
         and they shall bear interest at the rate of 3 1/2% per annum, from
         December 18, 1995 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to
         which interest has been paid or duly provided for, as the case may
         be, payable semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, commencing
         June 1, 1996 until the principal thereof is paid or made available
         for payment.

              The principal of (and premiums if any) and interest on the
         Securities shall be payable at the office or agency of the Company
         in The Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York or the city in
         which the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is located
         maintained for such purpose and at any other office or agency
         maintained by the Company for such purpose; PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
         that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made
         by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as
         such address shall appear in the Security Register.

              The Securities shall be redeemable as provided in Article 11.

              The Securities shall be convertible as provided in
         Article 12.

              The Securities shall be subordinated in right of payment to
         Senior Indebtedness as provided in Article 13.

              The Securities shall be subject to repurchase at the option
         of the Holder as provided in Article 14.  







                                       -21-
<PAGE>   31


              Section 3.2  Denominations.
                           -------------

              The Securities shall be issuable only in registered form
         without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 and any
         integral multiple thereof.

              Section 3.3  Execution, Authentication, Delivery
                           -----------------------------------
                           and Dating.
                           ----------

              The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by
         its Chairman of the Board, its President or one of its Vice
         Presidents, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested
         by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries.  The
         signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual
         or facsimile.

              Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of
         individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the
         Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such
         individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior
         to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not
         hold such offices at the date of such Securities.

              At any time and from time to time after the execution and
         delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities
         executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication,
         together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery
         of such Securities; and the Trustee in accordance with such
         Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as in
         this Indenture provided and not otherwise.

              Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.

              No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this
         Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there
         appears on such Security a certificate of authentication
         substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the
         Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any
         Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that
         such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.

              Section 3.4  Temporary Securities.
                           --------------------

              Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company
         may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate
         and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed,
         typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized
         denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive
         Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such



                                       -22-
<PAGE>   32


         appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other
         variations as the officers executing such Securities may
         determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.

              If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause
         definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay.
         After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary
         Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon
         surrender of the temporary Securities at any office or agency of
         the Company designated pursuant to Section 10.2, without charge to
         the Holder.  Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more
         temporary Securities the Company shall execute and the Trustee
         shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like
         principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized
         denominations.  Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall
         in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this
         Indenture as definitive Securities.

              Section 3.5  Registration; Registration of
                           -----------------------------
                           Transfer and Exchange.
                           ---------------------

              The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust
         Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such
         office and in any other office or agent designated pursuant to
         Section 10.2 being herein sometimes collectively referred to as
         the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable
         regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the
         registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities.  The
         Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose
         of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein
         provided.

              Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security
         at an office or agency of the Company designated pursuant to
         Section 10.2 for such purpose, the Company shall execute, and the
         Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the
         designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities
         of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal
         amount.

              At the option of the Holder, Securities may be exchanged for
         other Securities of any authorized denominations and of a like
         aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be
         exchanged at such office or agency.  Whenever any Securities are
         so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the
         Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the
         Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.





                                       -23-
<PAGE>   33





              All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or
         exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the
         Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same
         benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon
         such registration of transfer or exchange.

              Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of
         transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or
         the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written
         instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the
         Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his
         attorney duly authorized in writing.

              No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any
         registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the
         Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax
         or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection
         with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other
         than exchanges pursuant to Section 3.4, 9.6, 11.8 or 12.2 not
         involving any transfer.

              The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the
         transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at
         the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a
         notice of redemption of Securities selected for redemption under
         Section 11.4 and ending at the close of business on the day of
         such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any
         Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except
         the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.

              Section 3.6  Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and
                           ------------------------------
                           Stolen Securities.
                           -----------------

              If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the
         Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and
         deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of like tenor and
         principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously
         outstanding.

              If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee
         (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or
         theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may
         be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either
         of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or
         the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide
         purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its request the
         Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such
         destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor
         and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously
         outstanding.


                                       -24-
<PAGE>   34

              In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen
         Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the
         Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security,
         pay such Security.

              Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the
         Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any
         tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation
         thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of
         the Trustee) connected therewith.

              Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of
         any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an
         original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether
         or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time
         enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits
         of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all
         other Securities duly issued hereunder.

              The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall
         preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with
         respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed,
         lost or stolen Securities.

              Section 3.7  Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
                           ----------------------------------------------

              Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually
         paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be
         paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more
         Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on
         the Regular Record Date for such interest.

              Any interest on any Security which is payable, but is not
         punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date
         (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be
         payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by
         virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may
         be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided
         in clause (l) or (2) below:

                   (1)  The Company may elect to make payment of any
              Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the
              Securities (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are
              registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date
              for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be
              fixed in the following manner.  The Company shall notify the
              Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest
              proposed to be paid on each Security and the date of the
              proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall
              deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the


                                       -25-
<PAGE>   35


              aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such
              Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to
              the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the
              proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in
              trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such
              Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided.  Thereupon the
              Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of
              such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days
              and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed
              payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the
              Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment.  The Trustee
              shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date
              and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall
              cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted
              Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed,
              first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder at his address as
              it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days
              prior to such Special Record Date.  Notice of the proposed
              payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record
              Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest
              shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities
              (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered
              at the close of business on such Special Record Date and
              shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following
              clause (2).

                   (2)  The Company may make payment of any Defaulted
              Interest in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the
              requirements of any securities exchange on which the
              Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be
              required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the
              Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to
              this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed
              practicable by the Trustee.

              Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each
         Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of
         transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security
         shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to
         accrue, which were carried by such other Security.

              In the case of any Security which is converted after any
         Regular Record Date but on or before the next Interest Payment
         Date, interest whose Stated Maturity is on such Interest Payment
         Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date
         notwithstanding such conversion, and such interest (whether or not
         punctually paid or duly provided for) shall be paid to the Person
         in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor
         Securities) is registered at the close of business on such Regular
         Record Date.


                                       -26-
<PAGE>   36

              Section 3.8  Persons Deemed Owners.
                           ---------------------

              Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of
         transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or
         the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is
         registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of
         receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and
         (subject to Section 3.7) interest on such Security and for all
         other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be
         overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the
         Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the
         contrary.

              Section 3.9  Cancellation.
                           ------------

              All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption,
         registration of transfer or exchange or conversion shall, if
         surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to
         the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it.  The Company
         may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any
         Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which
         the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all
         Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the
         Trustee.  No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in
         exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section,
         except as expressly permitted by this Indenture.  All cancelled
         Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance
         with the Trustee's usual document destruction procedures.

              Section 3.10 Computation of Interest.
                           -----------------------

              Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of
         a year of twelve 30-day months.


                                      ARTICLE 4

                             SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE

              Section 4.1  Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture.
                           ---------------------------------------

              This Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as
         to any surviving rights of conversion, registration of transfer or
         exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the
         Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Company, shall
         execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and
         discharge of this Indenture, when





                                       -27-
<PAGE>   37

              (1)  either

                   (A)  all Securities theretofore authenticated and
              delivered (other than (i) Securities which have been
              destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or
              paid as provided in Section 3.6 and (ii) Securities for whose
              payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or
              segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter
              repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as
              provided in Section 10.3) have been delivered to the Trustee
              for cancellation; or

                   (B)  all such Securities not theretofore delivered to
              the Trustee for cancellation

                        (i)  have become due and payable, or

                       (ii)  will become due and payable at their Stated
                             Maturity within one year, or

                      (iii)  are to be called for redemption within one
                             year under arrangements satisfactory to the
                             Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption
                             by the Trustee in the name, and at the
                             expense, of the Company,

                   and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii)
                   above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the
                   Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an
                   amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire
                   indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore
                   delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal
                   (and premium, if any) and interest to the date of such
                   deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due
                   and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption
                   Date, as the case may be;

                   (2)  the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other
              sums payable hereunder by the Company; and

                   (3)  the Company has delivered to the Trustee an
              Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating
              that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to
              the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been
              complied with.

         Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture,
         the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 6.7,
         the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under
         Section 6.14 and, if money shall have been deposited with the


                                       -28-
<PAGE>   38


         Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section,
         the obligations of the Trustee under Section 4.2 and the last
         paragraph of Section 10.3 shall survive.  Except as specifically
         agreed in writing, the Trustee shall not be responsible for the
         payment of interest upon money deposited with it under this
         Indenture.

              Section 4.2  Application of Trust Money.
                           --------------------------

              Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of
         Section 10.3, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to
         Section 4.1 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in
         accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this
         Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying
         Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as
         the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the
         principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment
         such money has been deposited with the Trustee.  All moneys
         deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 4.1 (and held by it
         or any Paying Agent) for the payment of Securities subsequently
         converted shall be returned to the Company upon Company Request.


                                      ARTICLE 5

                                      REMEDIES

              Section 5.1  Events of Default.
                           -----------------

              "Event of Default", wherever used herein, means any one of
         the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of
         Default and whether it shall be occasioned by the provisions of
         Article 13 or be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by
         operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of
         any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative
         or governmental body):

                   (1)  default in the payment of any interest upon any
              Security when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of
              such default for a period of 30 days; or

                   (2)  default in the payment of the principal of (or
              premium, if any, on) any Security at its Maturity; or

                   (3)  default in the performance, or breach, of any
              covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other
              than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or
              whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt
              with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period
              of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or


                                       -29-
<PAGE>   39


              certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the
              Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 10% in
              principal amount of the Outstanding Securities a written
              notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to
              be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of
              Default" hereunder; or

                   (4)  a failure by the Company or any Subsidiary to make
              any payment at maturity in respect of any obligations (other
              than non-recourse obligations) of, or guaranteed or assumed
              by, the Company or any Subsidiary for borrowed money
              ("Indebtedness") in an amount in excess of $25,000,000 and
              continuance of such failure for 180 days, or a default by the
              Company or any Subsidiary with respect to any Indebtedness,
              which default results in the acceleration or such
              acceleration having been cured, waived, rescinded or annulled
              within 30 days after there shall have been given, by
              registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee
              or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least
              10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities a
              written notice specifying such default and requiring the
              Company to cause such indebtedness to be discharged or cause
              such default to be cured or waived or such acceleration to be
              rescinded or annulled and stating that such notice is a
              "Notice of Default" hereunder; or

                   (5)  the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the
              premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of
              the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any
              applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency,
              reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order
              adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving
              as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization,
              arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of
              the Company under any applicable Federal or state law, or
              appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee,
              trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the
              Company or of any substantial part of its property, or
              ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and
              the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any
              such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a
              period of 60 consecutive days; or

                   (6)  the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case
              or proceeding under any applicable Federal or state
              bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law
              or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a
              bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a
              decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an
              involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal


                                       -30-
<PAGE>   40


              or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other
              similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or
              insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it
              of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or
              relief under any applicable Federal or state law, or the
              consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the
              appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver,
              liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar
              official of the Company or of any substantial part of its
              property, or the making by it of an assignment for the
              benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of
              its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due,
              or the taking of corporate action by the Company in
              substantial furtherance of any such action.

              Section 5.2  Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission
                           ------------------------------------
                           and Annulment.
                           -------------

              If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, then and in
         every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in
         principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may declare the
         principal of all the Securities to be due and payable immediately,
         by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given
         by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal shall
         become immediately due and payable.

              At any time after such a declaration of acceleration has been
         made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due
         has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article
         provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
         Outstanding Securities, by written notice to the Company and the
         Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its
         consequences if

                   (1)  the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee
              a sum sufficient to pay

                        (A)     all overdue interest on all Securities,

                        (B)     the principal of (and premium, if any, on)
                   any Securities which have become due otherwise than by
                   such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at
                   the rate borne by the Securities,

                        (C)     to the extent that payment of such interest
                   is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate
                   borne by the Securities, and





                                       -31-
<PAGE>   41


                        (D)     all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee
                   hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses,
                   disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents
                   and counsel;

              and

                   (2)  all Events of Default, other than the non-payment
              of the principal of Securities which have become due solely
              by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or
              waived as provided in Section 5.13.

         No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair
         any right consequent thereon.

              Section 5.3  Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for
                           ----------------------------------------
                           Enforcement by Trustee.
                           ----------------------

              The Company covenants that if

                   (l)  default is made in the payment of any interest on
              any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and
              such default continues for a period of 30 days, or

                   (2)  default is made in the payment of the principal of
              (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity
              thereof,

         the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the
         benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then
         due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if
         any) and interest, and, to the extent that payment of such
         interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue
         principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest, at
         the rate borne by the Securities, and, in addition thereto, such
         further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and
         expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation,
         expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents
         and counsel.

              If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such
         demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express
         trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of
         the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to
         judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the
         Company or any other obligor upon the Securities and collect the
         moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by
         law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon
         the Securities, wherever situated.



                                       -32-
<PAGE>   42


              If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee
         may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights
         and the rights of the Holders by such appropriate judicial
         proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect
         and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement
         of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the
         exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other
         proper remedy.

              Section 5.4  Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
                           --------------------------------

              In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency,
         liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization arrangement, adjustment,
         composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company
         or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the
         Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee
         (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall
         then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or
         otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made
         any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal or
         interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such
         proceeding or otherwise,

                   (i)  to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of
              principal (and premium, if any) and interest owing and unpaid
              in respect of the Securities and take such other actions,
              including participating as a member, voting or otherwise, of
              any official committee of creditors appointed in such matter
              and to file such other papers or documents as may be
              necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the
              Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation,
              expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its
              agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such
              judicial proceeding, and

                  (ii)  to collect and receive any moneys or other property
              payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute
              the same;

         and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator,
         sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial
         proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such
         payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall
         consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to
         pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable
         compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee,
         its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee
         under Section 6.7.




                                       -33-
<PAGE>   43

              Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the
         Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of
         any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or
         composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder
         thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the
         claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.

              Section 5.5  Trustee May Enforce Claims
                           --------------------------
                           Without Possession of Securities.
                           --------------------------------

              All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the
         Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without
         the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof
         in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding
         instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as
         trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall,
         after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation,
         expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents
         and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the
         Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.

              Section 5.6  Application of Money Collected.
                           ------------------------------

              Subject to Article 13, any money collected by the Trustee
         pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order,
         at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the
         distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if
         any) or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the
         notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon
         surrender thereof if fully paid:

                   FIRST:  To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee
              under Section 6.7; and

                   SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and
              unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on
              the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of
              which such money has been collected, ratably, without
              preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts
              due and payable on such Securities for principal (and
              premium, if any) and interest, respectively.

              Section 5.7  Limitation on Suits.
                           -------------------

              No Holder of any Security shall have any right to institute
         any action, suit or proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with
         respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or
         trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless




                                       -34-
<PAGE>   44


                   (1)  such Holder has previously given written notice to
              the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default;

                   (2)  the Holders of not less than 25% in principal
              amount of the Outstanding Securities shall have made written
              request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of
              such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;

                   (3)  such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee
              reasonable indemnity against the costs, expenses and
              liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;

                   (4)  the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such
              notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to
              institute any such action, suit or proceeding; and

                   (5)  no direction inconsistent with such written request
              has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by
              the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
              Outstanding Securities;

         it being understood and intended that no one or more Holders shall
         have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing
         itself of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or
         prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek
         to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to
         enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner
         herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all the
         Holders.

              Section 5.8  Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive
                           -----------------------------------------
                           Principal, Premium and Interest and to Convert.
                           ----------------------------------------------

              Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, but
         subject to the provisions of Article 13, the Holder of any
         Security shall have the right, which is absolute and
         unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and
         premium, if any) and (subject to Section 3.7) interest on such
         Security on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such
         Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date)
         and to convert such Security in accordance with Article 12 and to
         institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment and right
         to convert, and such rights shall not be impaired without the
         consent of such Holder.








                                       -35-
<PAGE>   45


              Section 5.9  Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
                           ----------------------------------

              If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to
         enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such
         proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or
         has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder,
         then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such
         proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be
         restored severally and respectively to their former positions
         hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee
         and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had
         been instituted.

              Section 5.10  Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
                           -------------------------------

              Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement
         or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in
         the last paragraph of Section 3.6, no right or remedy herein
         conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is
         intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every
         right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be
         cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given
         hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or
         otherwise.  The assertion or employment of any right or remedy
         hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent
         assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.

              Section 5.11  Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
                           -----------------------------

              No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any
         Security to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event
         of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a
         waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein.
         Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the
         Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and
         as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the
         Holders, as the case may be.

              Section 5.12  Control by Holders.
                            ------------------

              The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the
         Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time,
         method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy
         available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power
         conferred on the Trustee, PROVIDED that

                   (1)  such direction shall not be in conflict with any
              rule of law or with this Indenture, and




                                       -36-
<PAGE>   46


                   (2)  the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper
              by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.

              Section 5.13  Waiver of Past Defaults.
                            -----------------------

              The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount
         of the Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all
         the Securities waive any past default hereunder and its
         consequences, except a default

                   (1)  in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if
              any) or interest on any Security, or

                   (2)  in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which
              under Article 9 cannot be modified or amended without the
              consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected;
              provided however that no such waiver shall be effected until
              all amounts then due to the Trustee under Section 6.7 have
              been paid.

              Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and
         any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have
         been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such
         waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair
         any right consequent thereon.

              Section 5.14  Undertaking for Costs.
                            ---------------------

              All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any
         Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed,
         that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the
         enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any
         suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted
         by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of
         an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court
         may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including
         reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such
         suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims
         or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of
         this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the
         Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of
         Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal
         amount of the Outstanding Securities, or to any suit instituted by
         any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of
         (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security on or after the
         respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in
         the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date) or for
         the enforcement of the right to convert any Security in accordance
         with Article 12.



                                       -37-
<PAGE>   47

              Section 5.15  Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
                            --------------------------------

              The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do
         so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any
         manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any
         stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time
         hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the
         performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that
         it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or
         advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder,
         delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the
         Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such
         power as though no such law had been enacted.


                                      ARTICLE 6

                                     THE TRUSTEE

              Section 6.1  Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
                           -----------------------------------

              (a)  Except during the continuance of an Event of Default,

                   (1)  the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and
              only such duties as are specifically set forth in this
              Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be
              read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and

                   (2)  in the absence of bad faith on its part, the
              Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the
              statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed
              therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the
              Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture;
              but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by
              any provision hereof are specifically required to be
              furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty
              to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform
              to the requirements of this Indenture, but need not verify
              the accuracy of the contents thereof.

              (b)  In case an Event of Default has occurred and is
         continuing, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and
         powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of
         care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise
         or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.

              (c)  No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to
         relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action,
         its own negligent failure to act, or its own wilful misconduct,
         EXCEPT that


                                       -38-
<PAGE>   48

                   (1)  this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the
              effect of Subsection (a) of this Section;

                   (2)  the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of
              judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless
              it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in
              ascertaining the pertinent facts;

                   (3)  the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any
              action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in
              accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in
              principal amount of the Outstanding Securities relating to
              the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for
              any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust
              or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture;
              and

                   (4)  no provision of this Indenture shall require the
              Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur
              any financial liability in the performance of any of its
              duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or
              powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing
              that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against
              such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.

              (d)  Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every
         provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting
         the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be
         subject to the provisions of this Section.  

              Section 6.2  Notice of Defaults.
                           ------------------

              Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder,
         the Trustee shall transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names
         and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such
         default hereunder known to the Trustee, unless such default shall
         have been cured or waived; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, except in the
         case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium,
         if any) or interest on any Security, the Trustee shall be
         protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board
         of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of
         directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith
         determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest
         of the Holders; and PROVIDED, FURTHER, that in the case of any
         default of the character specified in Section 5.1(3), no such
         notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the
         occurrence thereof.  For the purpose of this Section, the term
         "default" means any event which is, or after notice or lapse of
         time or both would become, an Event of Default.



                                       -39-

<PAGE>   49


              Section 6.3  Certain Rights of Trustee.
                           -------------------------

              Subject to the provisions of Section 6.1:

                   (a)  the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in
              acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution,
              certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice,
              request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note,
              other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document
              believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or
              presented by the proper party or parties;

                   (b)  any request or direction of the Company mentioned
              herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request
              or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors
              may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;

                   (c)  whenever in the administration of this Indenture
              the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved
              or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any
              action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be
              herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad
              faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate; 

                   (d)  the Trustee may consult with counsel and the
              written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel
              shall be full and complete authorization and protection in
              respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it
              hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;

                   (e)  the Trustee shall be under no obligation to
              exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this
              Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders
              pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have
              offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity
              against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be
              incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;

                   (f)  the Trustee shall not be bound to make any
              investigation into the facts or matters stated in any
              resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion,
              report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond,
              debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other
              paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may
              make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or
              matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall
              determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it
              shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises
              of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;



                                       -40-
<PAGE>   50

                   (g)  the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers
              hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or
              by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not
              be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part
              of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it
              hereunder;

                   (h)  the permissive right of the Trustee to take or
              refrain from taking any actions enumerated in this Indenture
              shall not be construed as a duty and the Trustee shall not be
              answerable in such actions other than for its own negligence
              or bad faith; and 

                   (i)  the Trustee shall not be deemed to know of any fact
              or event upon the occurrence of which it may be required to
              take action hereunder unless one of its Responsible Officers
              shall have actual knowledge thereof.

              Section 6.4  Not Responsible for Recitals
                           ----------------------------
                           or Issuance of Securities.
                           -------------------------

              The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except
         the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as
         the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no
         responsibility for their correctness.  The Trustee makes no
         representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this
         Indenture or of the Securities.  The Trustee shall not be
         accountable for the use or application by the Company of
         Securities or the proceeds thereof.

              Section 6.5  May Hold Securities.
                           -------------------

              The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any
         Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its
         individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee
         of Securities and, subject to Sections 6.8 and 6.13, may otherwise
         deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it
         were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security
         Registrar or such other agent.

              Section 6.6  Money Held in Trust.
                           -------------------

              Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be
         segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
         The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money
         received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the
         Company in writing.




                                       -41-
<PAGE>   51

              Section 6.7  Compensation and Reimbursement.
                           ------------------------------

              The Company agrees

                   (1)  to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable
              compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which
              compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in
              regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);

                   (2)  except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to
              reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable
              expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the
              Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture
              (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and
              disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such
              expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to
              its negligence or bad faith; and

                   (3)  to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it
              harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred
              without negligence or bad faith on its part, arising out of
              or in connection with the acceptance or administration of
              this trust, including the costs, expenses and reasonable
              attorneys' fees of defending itself against any claim or
              liability in connection with the exercise or performance of
              any of its powers or duties hereunder.

              Section 6.8  Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
                           ---------------------------------------

              (a)  If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting
         interest, within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, it shall,
         within 90 days after ascertaining that it has such conflicting
         interest, either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign in
         accordance with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act.

              (b)  In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with
         the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section, the Trustee
         shall, within 10 days after the expiration of such 90-day period,
         transmit by mail to all Holders, as their names and addresses
         appear in the Security Register, notice of such failure.

              Section 6.9  Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
                           ---------------------------------------

              There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall
         be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of
         the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of
         Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust
         powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least
         $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal,
         State or District of Columbia authority.  If such corporation


                                       -42-
<PAGE>   52

         publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law
         or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority,
         then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and
         surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined
         capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of
         condition so published.  If at any time the Trustee shall cease to
         be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it
         shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect
         hereinafter specified in this Article.

              Section 6.10  Resignation and Removal;
                            -----------------------
                            Appointment of Successor.
                            ------------------------

              (a)  No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no
         appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall
         become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the
         successor Trustee under Section 6.11.  

              (b)  The Trustee may resign at any time by giving written
         notice thereof to the Company.  If an instrument of acceptance by
         a successor Trustee shall not have been delivered to the Trustee
         within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the
         resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction
         for the appointment of a successor Trustee.

              (c)  The Trustee may be removed at any time by Act of the
         Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding
         Securities, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.

              (d)  If at any time:

                   (1)  the Trustee shall fail to comply with
              Section 6.8(a) after written request therefor by the Company
              or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a
              Security for at least six months, or

                   (2)  the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under
              Section 6.9 and shall fail to resign after written request
              therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or

                   (3)  the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or
              shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of
              the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any
              public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or
              of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation,
              conservation or liquidation

         then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may
         remove the Trustee, or (ii) subject to Section 5.14, any Holder
         who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six


                                       -43-
<PAGE>   53


         months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly
         situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the
         removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.

              (e)  If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become
         incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of
         Trustee for any cause, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall
         promptly appoint a successor Trustee.  If, within one year after
         such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of
         such vacancy, a successor Trustee shall be appointed by Act of the
         Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding
         Securities delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the
         successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its
         acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee and
         supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company.  If no
         successor Trustee shall have been so appointed by the Company or
         the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter
         provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security
         for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others
         similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction
         for the appointment of a successor Trustee.

              (f)  The Company shall give notice of each resignation and
         each removal of the Trustee and each appointment of a successor
         Trustee by mailing written notice of such event by first-class
         mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses
         appear in the Security Register.  Each notice shall include the
         name of the successor Trustee and the address of its Corporate
         Trust Office.

              Section 6.11  Acceptance of Appointment by
                            ----------------------------
                            Successor.
                            ---------

              Every successor Trustee appointed hereunder shall execute,
         acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee
         an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the
         resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become
         effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act,
         deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights,
         powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on request
         of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee
         shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an
         instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights,
         powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign,
         transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and
         money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.  Upon request of
         any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all
         instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming
         to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts.



                                       -44-
<PAGE>   54

              No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at
         the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be
         qualified and eligible under this Article. 

              Section 6.12  Merger, Conversion, Consolidation
                            ---------------------------------
                            or Succession to Business.
                            -------------------------

              Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or
         converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation
         resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which
         the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all
         or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee,
         shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such
         corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this
         Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any
         further act on the part of any of the parties hereto.  In case any
         Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by
         the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or
         consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such
         authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with
         the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself
         authenticated such Securities.

              Section 6.13  Preferential Collection of Claims
                            ---------------------------------
                            Against Company.
                            ---------------

              If the Trustee shall be or shall become a creditor, directly
         or indirectly, secured or unsecured, of the Company or any other
         obligor on the Securities, the Trustee shall be subject to and
         comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding
         the collection of claims against the Company or such other
         obligor.

              Section 6.14  Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
                            -----------------------------------

              The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents
         which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to
         authenticate Securities issued upon original issue and upon
         exchange, registration of transfer, partial conversion or partial
         redemption or pursuant to Section 3.6, and Securities so
         authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture
         and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if
         authenticated by the Trustee hereunder.  Wherever reference is
         made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of
         Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of
         authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include
         authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an
         Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed
         on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent.  Each
         Authenticating Agent shall be subject to acceptance by the Company


                                       -45-
<PAGE>   55


         and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing
         business under the laws of the United States of America, any State
         thereof or The District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to
         act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus
         of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or
         examination by Federal or State authority.  If such Authenticating
         Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant
         to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining
         authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined
         capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed
         to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most
         recent report of condition so published.  If at any time an
         Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with
         the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall
         resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in
         this Section.

              Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be
         merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any
         corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation
         to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any
         corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust
         business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an
         Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise
         eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of
         any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the
         Authenticating Agent.

              An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving
         written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company.  The
         Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating
         Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating
         Agent and to the Company.  Upon receiving such a notice of
         resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time
         such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance
         with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a
         successor Authenticating Agent which shall be subject to
         acceptance by the Company and shall mail written notice of such
         appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders
         as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register.  Any
         successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment
         hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and
         duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if
         originally named as an Authenticating Agent.  No successor
         Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the
         provisions of this Section.






                                       -46-
<PAGE>   56


              The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from
         time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this
         Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for
         such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 6.7.

              If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section, the
         Securities may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's
         certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of
         authentication in the following form:

              This is one of the Securities described in the
         within-mentioned Indenture.

                                     State Street Bank and Trust Company
                                          As Trustee


                                     By_________________________________
                                          As Authenticating Agent


                                     By_________________________________
                                          Authorized Officer

                                      ARTICLE 7

                  HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY

              Section 7.1  Company to Furnish Trustee Names
                           --------------------------------
                           and Addresses of Holders.
                           ------------------------

              The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the
         Trustee

                   (a)  semi-annually, not more than 15 days after each
              Regular Record Date, a list, in such form as the Trustee may
              reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders
              as of such Regular Record Date, and

                   (b)  at such other times as the Trustee may request in
              writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of
              any such request, a list of similar form and content as of a
              date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is
              furnished;

         EXCLUDING from any such list names and addresses received by the
         Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.



                                       -47-
<PAGE>   57

              Section 7.2  Preservation of Information;
                           ---------------------------
                           Communications to Holders.
                           -------------------------

              (a)  The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is
         reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders
         contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as
         provided in Section 7.1 and the names and addresses of Holders
         received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.
         The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in
         Section 7.1 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.

              (b)  The rights of the Holders to communicate with other
         Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under
         the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the
         Trustee, shall be as provided in the Trust Indenture Act.

              (c)  Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the
         same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the
         Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be
         held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such
         information as to the names and addresses of the Holders made
         pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act.

              Section 7.3  Reports by Trustee.
                           ------------------

              (a)  On or about each July 15, the Trustee shall transmit to
         the Holders such reports, if any, dated as of May 15, concerning
         the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be
         required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act in the manner
         provided pursuant thereto.

              (b)  A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such
         transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock
         exchange upon which the Securities are listed, with the Commission
         and with the Company.  The Company will notify the Trustee when
         the Securities are listed on any stock exchange.

              Section 7.4  Reports by Company.
                           ------------------

              The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission,
         and transmit to the Holders, such information, documents and other
         reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant
         to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided
         pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act; PROVIDED that any such
         information, documents or reports required to be filed with the
         Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934 shall be filed with the Trustee within 15
         days after the same is so required to be filed with the
         Commission.

                                       -48-
<PAGE>   58


                                      ARTICLE 8

                CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE

              Section 8.1  Company May Consolidate, Etc.,
                           ----------------------------
                           Only on Certain Terms.
                           ---------------------

              The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any
         other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and
         assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, and the Company
         shall not permit any Person to consolidate with or merge into the
         Company or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets
         substantially as an entirety to the Company, unless:

                   (1)  in case the Company shall consolidate with or merge
              into another Person or convey, transfer or lease its
              properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any
              Person, the Person formed by such consolidation or into which
              the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by
              conveyance or transfer, or which leases the properties and
              assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a
              corporation, partnership or trust, shall be organized and
              validly existing under the laws of the United States of
              America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and
              shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto,
              executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory
              to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal
              of (and premium, if any) and interest on all the Securities
              and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on
              the part of the Company to be performed or observed and shall
              have provided for conversion rights in accordance with
              Article 12 hereof;

                   (2)  immediately after giving effect to such
              transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after
              notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of
              Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and

                   (3)  the Company has delivered (except in the case of
              the conveyance, transfer or lease by any Person of its
              properties and assets substantially as an entirety to the
              Company) to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an
              Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation,
              merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental
              indenture is required in connection with such transaction,
              such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that
              all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such
              transaction have been complied with.




                                       -49-
<PAGE>   59

              Section 8.2  Successor Substituted.
                           ---------------------

              Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the
         Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or
         lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as
         an entirety in accordance with Section 8.1, the successor Person
         formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged
         or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall
         succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right
         and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same
         effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company
         herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the
         predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and
         covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.


                                      ARTICLE 9

                               SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES

              Section 9.1  Supplemental Indentures Without
                           -------------------------------
                           Consent of Holders.
                           ------------------

              Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when
         authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and
         from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures
         supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any
         of the following purposes:

                   (1)  to evidence the succession of another Person to the
              Company and the assumption by any such successor of the
              covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or

                   (2)  to add to the covenants of the Company for the
              benefit of the Holders, or to surrender any right or power
              herein conferred upon the Company; or

                   (3)  to secure the Securities; or

                   (4)  to make provision with respect to the conversion
              rights of Holders pursuant to the requirements of Article 12;
              or

                   (5)  to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any
              provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other
              provision herein, or to make any other provisions with
              respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture,
              PROVIDED such action pursuant to this clause (5) shall not
              adversely affect the interests of the Holders.



                                       -50-

<PAGE>   60

              Section 9.2  Supplemental Indentures with
                           ----------------------------
                           Consent of Holders.
                           ------------------

              With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority
         in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by Act of said
         Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company,
         when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter
         into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the
         purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or
         eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of
         modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders under this
         Indenture; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no such supplemental indenture
         shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding
         Security affected thereby,

                   (1)  change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or
              any installment of interest on, any Security, or reduce the
              principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or
              any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce
              the amount payable upon an optional redemption or the
              consideration payable to any Holder converting after a notice
              of redemption has been given or modify the provisions of
              Article 14 in a manner adverse to the Holders, or change the
              place of payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any
              Security or any premium or the interest thereon is payable,
              or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of
              any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or
              in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date),
              or adversely affect the right to convert any Security as
              provided in Article 12 (except as permitted by
              Section 9.1(4)), or modify the provisions of this Indenture
              with respect to the subordination of the Securities in a
              manner adverse to the Holders, or

                   (2)  reduce the percentage in principal amount of the
              Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is
              required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent
              of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance
              with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults
              hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this
              Indenture, or

                   (3)  modify any of the provisions of this Section,
              Section 5.13 or Section 10.8, except to increase any such
              percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of
              this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the
              consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected
              thereby.




                                       -51-

<PAGE>   61


              It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this
         Section to approve the particular form of any proposed
         supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act
         shall approve the substance thereof.

              Section 9.3  Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
                           ------------------------------------

              In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by,
         any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the
         modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the
         Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 6.1)
         shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel
         stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is
         authorized or permitted by this Indenture.  The Trustee may, but
         shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental
         indenture which, in the Trustee's sole discretion, affects the
         Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or
         otherwise.

              Section 9.4  Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
                           ---------------------------------

              Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this
         Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith,
         and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this
         Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities
         theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder
         shall be bound thereby.

              Section 9.5  Conformity with Trust Indenture Act.
                           -----------------------------------

              Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this
         Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture
         Act as then in effect.

              Section 9.6  Reference in Securities to
                           --------------------------
                           Supplemental Indentures.
                           -----------------------

              Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of
         any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall
         if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by
         the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental
         indenture.  If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so
         modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the
         Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and
         executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the
         Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities.



                                       -52-
<PAGE>   62


                                     ARTICLE 10

                                      COVENANTS

              Section 10.1  Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
                            ------------------------------------------

              The Company will duly and punctually pay the principal of
         (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities in accordance
         with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.

              Section 10.2  Maintenance of Office or Agency.
                            -------------------------------

              The Company will maintain in The Borough of Manhattan, The
         City of New York or in the city in which the Corporate Trust
         Office of the Trustee is located, an office or agency where
         Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where
         Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer or
         exchange, where Securities may be surrendered for conversion and
         where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the
         Securities and this Indenture may be served.  The Company will
         give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any
         change in the location, of such office or agency.  If at any time
         the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or
         agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address
         thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may
         be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee,
         and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to
         receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.

              The Company may also from time to time designate one or more
         other offices or agencies (in or outside The Borough of Manhattan,
         The City of New York) where the Securities may be presented or
         surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time
         rescind such designations; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that no such
         designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company
         of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in The Borough
         of Manhattan, The City of New York or in the city in which the
         Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is located for such
         purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the
         Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in
         the location of any such other office or agency.  

              Section 10.3  Money for Security Payments to be Held in
                            -----------------------------------------
                            Trust.
                            -----

              If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent,
         it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and
         premium, if any) or interest on any of the securities, segregate
         and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto



                                       -53-
<PAGE>   63


         a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or
         interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such
         Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will
         promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.

              Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents, it
         will, prior to each due date of the principal of (and premium, if
         any) or interest on any Securities, deposit with a Paying Agent a
         sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or
         interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the
         benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or
         interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the
         Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure
         so to act.

              The Company will cause each Paying Agent other than the
         Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in
         which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to
         the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:

                   (1)  hold all sums held by it for the payment of the
              principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities
              in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto
              until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise
              disposed of as herein provided;

                   (2)  give the Trustee notice of any default by the
              Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities) in the
              making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or
              interest; and

                   (3)  at any time during the continuance of any such
              default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith
              pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying
              Agent.

              The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the
         satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other
         purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay,
         to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such
         Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same
         trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or
         such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to
         the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further
         liability with respect to such money.

              Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or
         then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the
         principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security and
         remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and


                                       -54-
<PAGE>   64


         premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall,
         subject to applicable escheat and abandoned property law, be paid
         to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the
         Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of
         such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor,
         look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of
         the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money,
         and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall
         thereupon cease; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Trustee or such
         Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment,
         may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in a
         newspaper published in the English language, customarily published
         on each Business Day and of general circulation in The Borough of
         Manhattan, The City of New York and in the city in which the
         Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is located, notice that such
         money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein,
         which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such
         publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining
         will be repaid to the Company.

              Section 10.4  Existence.
                            ---------

              Subject to Article 8, the Company will do or cause to be done
         all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect
         its existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises;
         PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall not be required to
         preserve any such right or franchise if the Board of Directors
         shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer
         desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and that
         the loss thereof is not disadvantageous in any material respect to
         the Holders.

              Section 10.5  Maintenance of Properties.
                            -------------------------

              The Company will cause all properties used or useful in the
         conduct of its business or the business of any Subsidiary to be
         maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order
         and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be
         made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments
         and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company
         may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection
         therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all
         times; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that nothing in this Section shall
         prevent the Company from discontinuing the operation or
         maintenance of any of such properties if such discontinuance is,
         in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of its
         business or the business of any subsidiary and not disadvantageous
         in any material respect to the Holders.




                                       -55-
<PAGE>   65

              Section 10.6  Payment of Taxes and Other Claims.
                            ---------------------------------

              The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or
         discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (1) all
         taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon
         the Company or any Subsidiary or upon the income, profits or
         property of the Company or any Subsidiary, and (2) all lawful
         claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might
         by law become a lien upon the property of the Company or any
         Subsidiary; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall not be
         required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any
         such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability
         or validity is being contested in good faith by appropriate
         proceedings.

              Section 10.7  Statement by Officers as to Default.
                            -----------------------------------

              The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days
         after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the
         date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to
         the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in
         default in the performance and observance of any of the terms,
         provisions and conditions of Sections 10.1 to 10.8, inclusive, and
         if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults
         and the nature and status thereof of which they may have
         knowledge.

              Section 10.8  Waiver of Certain Covenants.
                            ---------------------------

              The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply
         with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 10.1 to 10.6,
         inclusive, if before the time for such compliance the Holders of
         at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding
         Securities shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such
         compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with
         such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or
         affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so
         expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective,
         the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in
         respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full
         force and effect.






                                       -56-

<PAGE>   66


                                     ARTICLE 11

                              REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES

              Section 11.1  Right of Redemption.
                            -------------------

              The Securities may be redeemed otherwise than at the option
         of the Holder as provided in Article 14 at the election of the
         Company, as a whole or from time to time in part, at any time on
         or after December 1, 1998, at the Redemption Prices specified in
         the form of Security hereinbefore set forth, together with accrued
         interest to the Redemption Date.

              Section 11.2  Applicability of Article.
                            ------------------------

              Redemption of Securities at the election of the Company or
         otherwise, as permitted or required by any provision of this
         Indenture, shall be made in accordance with such provision and
         this Article.

              Section 11.3  Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
                            -------------------------------------

              The election of the Company to redeem any Securities pursuant
         to Section 11.1 shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution.  In case
         of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all
         the Securities, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the
         Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice
         shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such
         Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be
         redeemed.

              Section 11.4  Selection by Trustee of Securities
                            ----------------------------------
                            to Be Redeemed.
                            --------------

              If less than all the Securities are to be redeemed, the
         particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more
         than 30 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the
         Outstanding Securities not previously called for redemption, by
         such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and
         which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions
         (equal to $1,000 or any integral multiple thereof) of the
         principal amount of Securities of a denomination larger than
         $1,000.

              If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted
         in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to
         the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of
         such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion




                                       -57-
<PAGE>   67

         selected for redemption.  Securities which have been converted
         during a selection of Securities to be redeemed shall be treated
         by the Trustee as Outstanding for the purpose of such selection.

              The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and each
         Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for
         redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial
         redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.

              For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context
         otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of
         Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or
         to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal
         amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.

              Section 11.5  Notice of Redemption.
                            --------------------

              Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail,
         postage prepaid, mailed not less than 20 nor more than 60 days
         prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be
         redeemed, at his latest address appearing in the Security
         Register.

              All notices of redemption shall state:

                   (1)  the Redemption Date,

                   (2)  the Redemption Price,

                   (3)  if less than all the Outstanding Securities are to
              be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial
              redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular
              Securities to be redeemed,

                   (4)  that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price
              will become due and payable upon each such Security to be
              redeemed and that interest thereon will cease to accrue on
              and after said date,

                   (5)  the conversion price, the date on which the right
              to convert the principal of the Securities to be redeemed
              will terminate and the place or places where such Securities
              may be surrendered for conversion, and

                   (6)  the place or places where such Securities are to be
              surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price.



                                       -58-
<PAGE>   68


         Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election
         of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's
         request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the
         Company.

              Section 11.6  Deposit of Redemption Price.
                            ---------------------------

              Not less than one Business Day prior to any Redemption Date,
         the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent
         (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate
         and hold in trust as provided in Section 10.3) an amount of money
         sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the
         Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued
         interest on, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that
         date other than any Securities called for redemption on that date
         which have been converted prior to the date of such deposit.

              If any Security called for redemption is converted, any money
         deposited with the Trustee or with any Paying Agent or so
         segregated and held in trust for the redemption of such Security
         shall (subject to any right of the Holder of such Security or any
         Predecessor Security to receive interest as provided in the last
         paragraph of Section 3.7) be paid to the Company upon Company
         Request or, if then held by the Company, shall be discharged from
         such trust.

              Section 11.7  Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
                            -------------------------------------

              Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the
         Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become
         due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and
         from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the
         payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such
         Securities shall cease to bear interest.  Upon surrender of any
         such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such
         Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price,
         together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; PROVIDED,
         HOWEVER, that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on
         or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of
         such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered
         as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates
         according to their terms and the provisions of Section 3.7.

              If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid
         upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium,
         if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date
         at the rate borne by the Security.


                                       -59-
<PAGE>   69


              Section 11.8  Securities Redeemed in Part.
                            ---------------------------

              Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be
         surrendered at an office or agency of the Company designated for
         that purpose pursuant to Section 10.2 (with, if the Company or the
         Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument
         of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee
         duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly
         authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the
         Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such
         Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of
         any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in
         aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the
         unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so
         surrendered.


                                     ARTICLE 12

                              CONVERSION OF SECURITIES

              Section 12.1  Conversion Privilege and Conversion Price.
                            -----------------------------------------

              Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this
         Article, at the option of the Holder thereof, at any time after 60
         days from the latest date of original issuance of the Notes, any
         Security or any portion of the principal amount thereof which is
         $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 may be converted at the
         principal amount thereof, or of such portion thereof, into fully
         paid and nonassessable shares (calculated as to each conversion to
         the nearest 1/100 of a share) of Common Stock of the Company, at
         the conversion price, determined as hereinafter provided, in
         effect at the time of conversion.  Such conversion right shall
         expire at the close of business on December 1, 2000.  In case a
         Security or portion thereof is called for redemption or is
         delivered for repurchase, such conversion right in respect of the
         Security or portion so called shall expire at the close of
         business on the fifth Business Day prior to the Redemption Date,
         or the second Trading Day preceding the Repurchase Date (as
         defined in Article 14), as the case may be, unless the Company
         defaults in making the payment due upon redemption.

              The price at which shares of Common Stock shall be delivered
         upon conversion (herein called the "conversion price") shall be
         initially $41 7/8 per share of Common Stock.  The conversion price
         shall be adjusted in certain instances as provided in
         Section 12.4.


                                       -60-
<PAGE>   70


              Section 12.2  Exercise of Conversion Privilege.
                            --------------------------------

              In order to exercise the conversion privilege, the Holder of
         any Security to be converted shall surrender such Security, duly
         endorsed or assigned to the Company or in blank, at any office or
         agency of the Company maintained for that purpose pursuant to
         Section 10.2, accompanied by written notice to the Company at such
         office or agency that the Holder elects to convert such Security
         or, if less than the entire principal amount thereof is to be
         converted, the portion thereof to be converted.  In the case of
         any Security that has been converted during the period from the
         close of business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any
         Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest
         Payment Date, interest whose Stated Maturity is on such Interest
         Payment Date shall be payable on such Interest Payment Date
         notwithstanding such conversion and such interest shall be paid to
         the Holder of such Security on such Regular Record Date.
         Securities surrendered for conversion during the period from the
         close of business on any Regular Record Date next preceding any
         Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest
         Payment Date (the "Interest Period") shall be accompanied by
         payment of an amount equal to the interest payable on such
         Interest Payment Date on the principal amount of Securities being
         surrendered for conversion; EXCEPT THAT in the case of Securities
         or portions thereof that have been called for redemption and,
         pursuant to Section 12.1 hereof, as a result of such redemption,
         the right to convert such Securities terminates during the
         Interest Period, any such Securities surrendered for conversion
         during such Interest Period need not be accompanied by payment of
         an amount equal to such interest.  Except as provided in the
         second preceding sentence and subject to the fourth paragraph of
         Section 3.7, no payment or adjustment shall be made upon any
         conversion on account of any interest accrued on the Securities
         surrendered for conversion or on account of any dividends on the
         Common Stock issued upon conversion.  All payments required by
         this paragraph to be made by the Holder upon the surrender of
         Securities for conversion shall be made in New York Clearing House
         Funds or other funds acceptable to the Company.

              Securities shall be deemed to have been converted immediately
         prior to the close of business on the day of surrender of such
         Securities for conversion in accordance with the foregoing
         provisions, and at such time the rights of the Holders of such
         Securities as Holders shall cease, and the Person or Persons
         entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon conversion
         shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder or holders
         of such Common Stock at such time.  As promptly as practicable on
         or after the conversion date, the Company shall issue and shall
         deliver at such office or agency a certificate or certificates for



                                       -61-
<PAGE>   71

         the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon
         conversion, together with payment in lieu of any fraction of a
         share, as provided in Section 12.3.

              In the case of any Security which is converted in part only,
         upon such conversion the Company shall execute and the Trustee
         shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the
         expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of authorized
         denominations in aggregate principal amount equal to the
         unconverted portion of the principal amount of such Security.

              Section 12.3  Fractions of Shares.
                            -------------------

              No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon
         conversion of Securities.  If more than one Security shall be
         surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the
         number of full shares which shall be issuable upon conversion
         thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal
         amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof) so
         surrendered.  Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock
         which would otherwise be issuable upon conversion of any Security
         or Securities (or specified portions thereof), the Company shall
         pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction in an amount
         equal to the same fraction of the market price per share of Common
         Stock (as determined by the Board of Directors or in any manner
         prescribed by the Board of Directors) at the close of business on
         the day of conversion.

              Section 12.4  Adjustment of Conversion Price.
                            ------------------------------

              (1)  In case the Company shall pay or make a dividend or
         other distribution on any class of capital stock of the Company in
         Common Stock, the conversion price in effect at the opening of
         business on the day following the date fixed for the determination
         of stockholders entitled to receive such dividend or other
         distribution shall be reduced by multiplying such conversion price
         by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of shares
         of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the date
         fixed for such determination and the denominator shall be the sum
         of such number of shares and the total number of shares
         constituting such dividend or other distribution, such reduction
         to become effective immediately after the opening of business on
         the day following the date fixed for such determination.  For the
         purposes of this paragraph (1), the number of shares of Common
         Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the
         treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in
         respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of
         shares of Common Stock.  The Company will not pay any dividend or
         make any distribution on shares of Common Stock held in the
         treasury of the Company.


                                       -62-
<PAGE>   72


              (2)  In case the Company shall issue rights, options or
         warrants to all holders of its Common Stock entitling them to
         subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per
         share less than the current market price per share (determined as
         provided in paragraph (8) of this Section) of the Common Stock on
         the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to
         receive such rights or warrants, the conversion price in effect at
         the opening of business on the day following the date fixed for
         such determination shall be reduced by multiplying such conversion
         price by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of
         shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the
         date fixed for such determination plus the number of shares of
         Common Stock which the aggregate of the offering price of the
         total number of shares of Common Stock so offered for subscription
         or purchase would purchase at such current market price and the
         denominator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock
         outstanding at the close of business on the date fixed for such
         determination plus the number of shares of Common Stock so offered
         for subscription or purchase, such reduction to become effective
         immediately after the opening of business on the day following the
         date fixed for such determination.  For the purposes of this
         paragraph (2), the number of shares of Common Stock at any time
         outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the
         Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip
         certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common
         Stock.  The Company will not issue any rights, options or warrants
         in respect of shares of Common Stock held in the treasury of the
         Company.

              (3)  In case outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be
         subdivided into a greater number of shares of Common Stock, the
         conversion price in effect at the opening of business on the day
         following the day upon which such subdivision becomes effective
         shall be proportionately reduced, and, conversely, in case
         outstanding shares of Common Stock shall each be combined into a
         smaller number of shares of Common Stock, the conversion price in
         effect at the opening of business on the day following the day
         upon which such combination becomes effective shall be
         proportionately increased, such reduction or increase, as the case
         may be, to become effective immediately after the opening of
         business on the day following the day upon which such subdivision
         or combination becomes effective.

              (4)  In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise,
         distribute to all holders of its Common Stock evidences of its
         indebtedness, shares of any class of capital stock, cash or assets
         (including Securities, but excluding any (i) rights, options or
         warrants referred to in paragraph (2) of this Section, (ii) any
         dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash, (iii) any
         dividend or distribution referred to in paragraph (1) of this


                                       -63-
<PAGE>   73

         Section and (iv) any merger or consolidation to which
         Section 12.11 applies), the conversion price shall be adjusted so
         that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the
         conversion price in effect immediately prior to the close of
         business on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders
         entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction of which the
         numerator shall be the current market price per share (determined
         as provided in paragraph (8) of this Section) of the Common Stock
         on the date fixed for such determination less the then fair market
         value (as determined by the Board of Directors, whose
         determination shall be conclusive and described in a Board
         Resolution filed with the Trustee) of the portion of the assets,
         shares or evidences of indebtedness so distributed applicable to
         one share of Common Stock and the denominator shall be such
         current market price per share of the Common Stock, such
         adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of
         business on the day following the date fixed for the determination
         of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution.
         Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the Company shall
         distribute rights or warrants (other than those referred to in
         paragraph (2) of this Section) ("Rights") pro rata to holders of
         Common Stock, the Company shall make proper provision so that each
         Holder of a Security who converts such Security (or any portion
         thereof) after the record date for such distribution and prior to
         the expiration or redemption of the Rights shall be entitled to
         receive upon such conversion, in addition to the shares of Common
         Stock issuable upon such conversion (the "Conversion Shares"), a
         number of Rights to be determined as follows:  (i) if such
         conversion occurs on or prior to the date for the distribution to
         the holders of Rights of separate certificates evidencing such
         Rights (the "Distribution Date"), the same number of Rights to
         which a holder of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the
         number of Conversion Shares is entitled at the time of such
         conversion in accordance with the terms and provisions of and
         applicable to the Rights; and (ii) if such conversion occurs after
         the Distribution Date, the same number of Rights to which a holder
         of the number of shares of Common Stock into which the principal
         amount of the Security so converted was convertible immediately
         prior to the Distribution Date would have been entitled on the
         Distribution Date in accordance with the terms and provisions of
         and applicable to the Rights.

              (5)  In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise,
         distribute to all holders of its Common Stock cash (excluding any
         cash that is distributed upon a merger or consolidation to which
         Section 12.11 applies or as part of a distribution referred to in
         paragraph (4) of this Section) in an aggregate amount that,
         combined together with (I) the aggregate amount of any other
         distributions to all holders of its Common Stock made exclusively
         in cash within the 12 months preceding the date of payment of such


                                       -64-
<PAGE>   74


         distribution and in respect of which no adjustment pursuant to
         this paragraph (5) has been made and (II) the aggregate of any
         cash plus the fair market value (as determined by the Board of
         Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described
         in a Board Resolution) of consideration payable in respect of any
         tender offer by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for all or
         any portion of the Common Stock concluded within the 12 months
         preceding the date of payment of such distribution and in respect
         of which no adjustment pursuant to paragraph (6) of this Section
         has been made, exceeds 12.5% of the product of the current market
         price per share of the Common Stock on the date for the
         determination of holders of shares of Common Stock entitled to
         receive such distribution times the number of shares of Common
         Stock outstanding on such date, then, and in each such case,
         immediately after the close of business on such date for
         determination, the conversion price shall be adjusted so that the
         same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the
         conversion price in effect immediately prior to the close of
         business on the date fixed for determination of the stockholders
         entitled to receive such distribution by a fraction (i) the
         numerator of which shall be equal to the current market price per
         share (determined as provided in paragraph (8) of this Section) of
         the Common Stock on the date fixed for such determination less an
         amount equal to the quotient of (x) the excess of such combined
         amount over such 12.5% and (y) the number of shares of Common
         Stock outstanding on such date for determination and (ii) the
         denominator of which shall be equal to the current market price
         per share (determined as provided in paragraph (8) of this
         Section) of the Common Stock on such date for determination.

              (6)  In case a tender offer made by the Company or any
         Subsidiary for all or any portion of the Common Stock shall expire
         and such tender offer (as amended upon the expiration thereof)
         shall require the payment to stockholders (based on the acceptance
         (up to any maximum specified in the terms of the tender offer) of
         Purchased Shares (as defined below)) of an aggregate consideration
         having a fair market value (as determined by the Board of
         Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive and described
         in a Board Resolution) that combined together with (I) the
         aggregate of the cash plus the fair market value (as determined by
         the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be conclusive
         and described in a Board Resolution), as of the expiration of such
         tender offer, of consideration payable in respect of any other
         tender offer by the Company or any Subsidiary for all or any
         portion of the Common Stock expiring within the 12 months
         preceding the expiration of such tender offer and in respect of
         which no adjustment pursuant to this paragraph (6) has been made
         and (II) the aggregate amount of any distributions to all holders
         of the Company's Common Stock made exclusively in cash within 12
         months preceding the expiration of such tender offer and in


                                       -65-
<PAGE>   75


         respect of which no adjustment pursuant to paragraph (5) of this
         Section has been made, exceeds 15% of the product of the current
         market price per share of the Common Stock (determined as provided
         in paragraph (8) of this Section) as of the last time (the
         "Expiration Time") tenders could have been made pursuant to such
         tender offer (as it may be amended) times the number of shares of
         Common Stock outstanding (including any tendered shares) as of the
         Expiration Time, then, and in each such case, immediately prior to
         the opening of business on the day after the date of the
         Expiration Time, the conversion price shall be adjusted so that
         the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the
         conversion price immediately prior to close of business on the
         date of the Expiration Time by a fraction (i) the numerator of
         which shall be equal to (A) the product of (I) the current market
         price per share of the Common Stock (determined as provided in
         paragraph (8) of this Section) on the date of the Expiration Time
         and (II) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
         (including any tendered shares) on the Expiration Time less
         (B) the amount of cash plus the fair market value (determined as
         aforesaid) of the aggregate consideration payable to stockholders
         based on the acceptance (up to any maximum specified in the terms
         of the tender offer) of Purchased Shares, and (ii) the denominator
         of which shall be equal to the product of (A) the current market
         price per share of the Common Stock (determined as provided in
         paragraph (8) of this Section) as of the Expiration Time and
         (B) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding (including
         any tendered shares) as of the Expiration Time less the number of
         all shares validly tendered and not withdrawn as of the Expiration
         Time (the shares deemed so accepted up to any such maximum, being
         referred to as the "Purchased Shares").

              (7)  The reclassification of Common Stock into securities
         including other than Common Stock (other than any reclassification
         upon a consolidation or merger to which Section 12.11 applies)
         shall be deemed to involve (a) a distribution of such Securities
         other than Common Stock to all holders of Common Stock (and the
         effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the
         date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to
         receive such distribution" and "the date fixed for such
         determination" within the meaning of paragraph (4) of this
         Section), and (b) a subdivision or combination, as the case may
         be, of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
         immediately prior to such reclassification into the number of
         shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately thereafter (and the
         effective date of such reclassification shall be deemed to be "the
         day upon which such subdivision becomes effective" or "the day
         upon which such combination becomes effective," as the case may
         be, and "the day upon which such subdivision or combination
         becomes effective" within the meaning of paragraph (3) of this
         Section).


                                       -66-
<PAGE>   76


              (8)  For the purpose of any computation under paragraphs (2),
         (4), (5) and (6) of this Section, the current market price per
         share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the
         average of the daily Closing Prices for the five consecutive
         Business Days selected by the Company commencing not more than ten
         Business Days before the day in question.

              (9)  The Company may make such reductions in the conversion
         price, in addition to those required by paragraphs (l), (2), (3),
         (4), (5) and (6) of this Section, as it considers to be advisable
         in order that any event treated for Federal income tax purposes as
         a dividend of stock or stock rights shall not be taxable to the
         recipients.

             (10)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this
         Section 12.4, the Company shall not be required to make any
         adjustment of the conversion price unless such adjustment
         (together with any prior adjustments that were not made as a
         result of this clause (10)) would require an increase or decrease
         of at least 1% of such conversion price.

              Section 12.5  Notice of Adjustments of Conversion Price.
                            -----------------------------------------

              Whenever the conversion price is adjusted as herein provided:

                   (a)  the Company shall compute the adjusted conversion
              price in accordance with Section 12.4 and shall prepare a
              certificate signed by the Treasurer of the Company setting
              forth the adjusted conversion price and showing in reasonable
              detail the facts upon which such adjustment is based, and
              such certificate shall forthwith be filed with the Trustee
              and at each office or agency maintained for the purpose of
              conversion of Securities pursuant to Section 10.2; and

                   (b)  a notice stating that the conversion price has been
              adjusted and setting forth the adjusted conversion price
              shall forthwith be required, and as soon as practicable after
              it is required, such notice shall be mailed by the Company to
              all Holders at their last addresses as they shall appear in
              the Security Register.

              The Trustee may conclusively rely upon the last Treasurer's
         certificate filed with it pursuant to paragraph (a) hereof as to
         the conversion price then in effect.




                                       -67-
<PAGE>   77

              Section 12.6  Notice of Certain Corporate Action.
                            ----------------------------------

              In case:

                   (a)  the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other
              distribution) on its Common Stock payable (i) otherwise than
              exclusively in cash or (ii) exclusively in cash in an amount
              that would require any adjustment pursuant to Section 12.4;
              or

                   (b)  the Company shall authorize the granting to the
              holders of its Common Stock of rights, options or warrants to
              subscribe for or purchase any shares of capital stock of any
              class or of any other rights; or

                   (c)  of any reclassification of the Common Stock of the
              Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its
              outstanding shares of Common Stock), or of any consolidation
              or merger to which the Company is a party and for which
              approval of any stockholders of the Company is required, or
              of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the
              assets of the Company; or

                   (d)  of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution,
              liquidation or winding up of the Company; or

                   (e)  the Company or any Subsidiary shall commence a
              tender offer for all or a portion of the Company's
              outstanding shares of Common Stock (or shall amend any such
              tender offer);

         then the Company shall cause to be filed at each office or agency
         maintained for the purpose of conversion of Securities pursuant to
         Section 10.2, and shall cause to be mailed to all Holders at their
         last addresses as they shall appear in the Security Register, at
         least 20 days (or 10 days in any case specified in clause (a) or
         (b) above) prior to the applicable record or effective date
         hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a
         record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend,
         distribution, rights, options or warrants, or, if a record is not
         to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of
         record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution, rights,
         options or warrants are to be determined, or (y) the date on which
         such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer,
         dissolution, liquidation or winding up is expected to become
         effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of
         Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their shares
         of Common Stock for securities, cash or other property deliverable
         upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer,
         dissolution, liquidation or winding up.


                                       -68-
<PAGE>   78


              Section 12.7  Company to Reserve Common Stock.
                            -------------------------------

              The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available,
         free from pre-emptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued
         Common Stock, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of
         Securities, the full number of shares of Common Stock then
         issuable upon the conversion of all Outstanding Securities.

              Section 12.8  Taxes on Conversions.
                            --------------------

              The Company will pay any and all taxes that may be payable in
         respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on
         conversion of Securities pursuant hereto.  The Company shall not,
         however, be required to pay any tax which may be payable in
         respect of any transfer involved in the issue and delivery of
         shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the Holder of
         the Security or Securities to be converted, and no such issue or
         delivery shall be made unless and until the Person requesting such
         issue has paid to the Company the amount of any such tax, or has
         established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has
         been paid.

              Section 12.9  Covenant as to Common Stock.
                            ---------------------------

              The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock which
         may be issued upon conversion of Securities will upon issue be
         fully paid and nonassessable and, except as provided in
         Section 12.8, the Company will pay all taxes, liens and charges
         with respect to the issue thereof.

              Section 12.10  Cancellation of Converted Securities.
                             ------------------------------------

              All Securities delivered for conversion shall be delivered to
         the Trustee to be cancelled by or at the direction of the Trustee,
         which shall dispose of the same as provided in Section 3.9.

              Section 12.11  Provisions in Case of Consolidation,
                             -----------------------------------
                             Merger or Sale of Assets.
                             ------------------------

              In case of any consolidation of the Company with, or merger
         of the Company into, any other Person, any merger of another
         Person into the Company (other than a merger which does not result
         in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or cancellation of
         outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company) or any sale or
         transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company,
         the Person formed by such consolidation or resulting from such
         merger or which acquires such assets, as the case may be, shall
         execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture
         providing that the Holder of each Security then outstanding shall
         have the right thereafter, during the period such Security shall


                                       -69-
<PAGE>   79


         be convertible as specified in Section 12.1, to convert such
         Security only into the kind and amount of securities, cash and
         other property receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or
         transfer by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock of
         the Company into which such Security might have been converted
         immediately prior to such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer,
         assuming such holder of Common Stock of the Company (i) is not a
         Person with which the Company consolidated or into which the
         Company merged or which merged into the Company or to which such
         sale or transfer was made, as the case may be ("Constituent
         Person"), or an Affiliate of a Constituent Person and (ii) failed
         to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or
         amount of Securities, cash and other property receivable upon such
         consolidation, merger, sale or transfer (provided that if the kind
         or amount of Securities, cash and other property receivable upon
         such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer is not the same for
         each share of Common Stock of the Company held immediately prior
         to such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer by others than a
         Constituent Person or an Affiliate thereof and in respect of which
         such rights of election shall not have been exercised
         ("non-electing share"), then for the purpose of this Section the
         kind and amount of securities, cash and other property receivable
         upon such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer by each
         non-electing share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so
         receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares).
         Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which,
         for events subsequent to the effective date of such supplemental
         indenture, shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to
         the adjustments provided for in this Article.  The above
         provisions of this Section shall similarly apply to successive
         consolidations, mergers, sales or transfers.


                                     ARTICLE 13

                             SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES

              Section 13.1  Securities Subordinated to Senior Indebtedness.
                            ----------------------------------------------

              All Securities issued under this Indenture shall be issued
         subject to the following provisions and each Holder of any
         Security whether upon original issue or upon transfer or
         assignment thereof accepts and agrees to be bound by such
         provisions.

              All Securities issued hereunder shall, to the extent and in
         the manner hereinafter set forth, be subordinated and subject in
         right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior
         Indebtedness as defined in this Section.  The term "Senior
         Indebtedness" shall mean (a) all indebtedness of the Company,


                                       -70-
<PAGE>   80


         including the principal of and premium, if any, and interest on
         such indebtedness whether outstanding on the date of this
         Indenture or thereafter created, (i) for borrowed money, (ii) for
         money borrowed by others and guaranteed, directly or indirectly,
         by the Company, (iii) constituting purchase money indebtedness for
         the payment of which the Company is directly or contingently
         liable, (iv) constituting reimbursement obligations under bank
         letters of credit, (v) under interest rate and currency swaps,
         caps, floors, collars or similar agreements or arrangements
         intended to protect the Company against fluctuations in interest
         or currency rates, (vi) under any lease of any real or personal
         property, whether outstanding on the date of execution of this
         Indenture or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which
         obligations are capitalized on the books of the Company in
         accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, unless,
         in any such case, by the terms of the instrument creating or
         evidencing such indebtedness it is provided that such indebtedness
         is not superior in right of payment to the Securities or to other
         indebtedness which is PARI PASSU with, or subordinated to, the
         Securities, or (vi) all obligations of others of the kind
         described in the preceding clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v) and
         (vi) assumed by or guaranteed by the Company, and (b) any
         modifications, refundings, deferrals, renewals or extensions of
         any such Senior Indebtedness, or securities, notes or other
         evidences of indebtedness issued in exchange for such Senior
         Indebtedness.  As used in the preceding sentence the term
         "purchase money indebtedness" shall mean indebtedness evidenced by
         a note, debenture, bond or other similar instrument (whether or
         not secured by any lien or other security interest) given in
         connection with the acquisition of any business, properties or
         assets of any kind acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary;
         PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, without limiting the generality of the
         foregoing, such term shall not include any conditional sale
         contract or any account payable or any other indebtedness created
         or assumed by the Company in the ordinary course of business in
         connection with the obtaining of inventories or services.

              Section 13.2  No Payments in Certain Circumstances; Payment
                            ---------------------------------------------
                            Over of Proceeds Upon Dissolution, Etc.
                            --------------------------------------

              No payment on account of principal, premium, if any, or
         interest on, or redemption or repurchase of, the Securities shall
         be made if, at the time of such payment or immediately after
         giving effect thereto:  (i) there shall exist a default in the
         payment of principal, premium, if any, sinking funds or interest
         (including a default under any purchase or redemption obligations)
         with respect to any Senior Indebtedness, or (ii) there shall have
         occurred an event of default (other than a default in the payment
         of principal, premium, if any, sinking funds or interest) with
         respect to any Senior Indebtedness, as defined therein or in the


                                       -71-
<PAGE>   81


         instrument under which the same is outstanding, permitting the
         holders thereof to accelerate the maturity thereof and written
         notice of such occurrence shall have been given to the Company and
         to the Trustee under this Indenture by the holder or holders of
         such Senior Indebtedness and such event of default shall not have
         been cured or waived or shall not have ceased to exist.
         Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may make and the
         Trustee may receive and shall apply any payment in respect of the
         Securities (for principal, premium, if any, or interest or
         repurchase) if such payment was made prior to the occurrence of
         any of the contingencies specified in clauses (i) and (ii) above.
         In addition, nothing in this paragraph shall prevent the Company
         from making or the Trustee from receiving or applying any payment
         in connection with the redemption of Securities if the first
         publication of notice of such redemption (whether by mail or
         otherwise in accordance with this Indenture) has been made prior
         to the occurrence of any of the contingencies specified in
         clauses (i) and (ii) above.

              Upon (i) any acceleration of the principal amount due on the
         Securities or (ii) any payment or distribution of assets of the
         Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or
         securities, to creditors upon any dissolution or winding up or
         total or partial liquidation or reorganization of the Company,
         whether voluntary or involuntary or in bankruptcy, insolvency,
         receivership or other proceedings, all principal, premium, if any,
         and interest due or to become due upon all Senior Indebtedness
         (including interest thereon accruing after the commencement of any
         such proceedings) shall first be paid in full, or payment thereof
         provided for in money or money's worth in accordance with its
         terms, before any payment is made on account of the principal of,
         premium, if any, or interest on, or repurchase of, the
         indebtedness evidenced by the Securities, and upon any such
         dissolution or winding up or liquidation or reorganization any
         payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or
         character, whether in cash, property or securities, to which the
         Holders of the Securities or the Trustee under this Indenture
         would be entitled, except for the provisions hereof, shall be paid
         by the Company or by any receiver, trustee in bankruptcy,
         liquidating trustee, agent or other Person making such payment or
         distribution, or by the Holders of the Securities or by the
         Trustee under this Indenture if received by them or it, as the
         case may be, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness (pro
         rata to each such holder on the basis of the respective amounts of
         Senior Indebtedness held by such holder) or their representatives,
         to the extent necessary to pay all Senior Indebtedness in full, in
         money or money's worth, after giving effect to any concurrent
         payment or distribution to or for the holders of Senior
         Indebtedness, before any payment or distribution is made to the
         Holders of the Securities or to the Trustee under this Indenture.


                                       -72-
<PAGE>   82

              In the event that, contrary to the foregoing, any payment or
         distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character,
         whether in cash, property or securities, shall be received by the
         Trustee or the Holders of the Securities before all Senior
         Indebtedness is paid in full or provision made for such payment,
         in accordance with its terms, such payment or distribution shall
         be held in trust for the benefit of, and shall be paid over or
         delivered to, the holders of such Senior Indebtedness or their
         representative or representatives, or to the trustee or trustees
         under any indenture pursuant to which any instruments evidencing
         any of such Senior Indebtedness have been issued, as their
         respective interests may appear, for application to the payment of
         all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid to the extent necessary
         to pay all such Senior Indebtedness in full in accordance with its
         terms, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or
         distribution to or for the holders of such Senior Indebtedness.

              Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness,
         the Holders of the Securities (together with the holders of any
         other indebtedness of the Company which is subordinated in right
         of payment to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness,
         which is not subordinated in right of payment to the Securities
         and which by its terms grants such right of subrogation to the
         holders thereof) shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders
         of Senior Indebtedness to receive payments or distributions of
         assets of the Company made on the Senior Indebtedness until the
         principal of and premium, if any, and interest on, or repurchase
         of, the Securities shall be paid in full; and, for the purposes of
         such subrogation, no payments or distributions to the holders of
         Senior Indebtedness of any cash, property or securities to which
         the Holders of the Securities or the Trustee would be entitled
         except for the provisions of this Article, and no payment over
         pursuant to the provisions of this Article to the holders of
         Senior Indebtedness by the Holders of the Securities or the
         Trustee, shall, as between the Company, its creditors other than
         the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of Securities,
         be deemed to be a payment by the Company to the Holders of or on
         account of the Securities, it being understood that the provisions
         of this Article are and are intended solely for the purpose of
         defining the relative rights of the Holders of the Securities, on
         the one hand, and the holders of Senior Indebtedness, on the other
         hand.

              Section 13.3  Notice to Trustee of Specified Events;
                            -------------------------------------
                            Reliance on Certificate of Liquidating Agent.
                            --------------------------------------------

              The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee
         of any insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding in respect of the
         Company, of any proceedings for voluntary liquidation, dissolution
         or other winding up of the Company (whether or not involving


                                       -73-
<PAGE>   83


         insolvency or bankruptcy), of the declaration of any Security as
         due and payable before its expressed maturity, and of any event
         which pursuant to Section 13.2 would prevent payment by the
         Company on account of the principal, premium, if any, or interest
         on, or repurchase of, the Securities.  The Trustee, subject to the
         provisions of Section 6.1, shall be entitled to assume that no
         such event has occurred unless the Company, or a holder of Senior
         Indebtedness, or any trustee therefor, has given such notice.

              Upon any distribution of assets of the Company or payment by
         or on behalf of the Company referred to in this Article, the
         Trustee and the Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to
         rely upon any order or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction
         in which any proceedings of the nature referred to in Section 13.2
         are pending, and the Trustee, subject to the provisions of
         Section 6.1, and the Holders of the Securities shall be entitled
         to rely upon a certificate of the liquidating trustee or agent or
         other Person making any distribution to the Trustee or to the
         Holders of the Securities for the purpose of ascertaining the
         Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders
         of the Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company,
         the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid
         or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to
         this Article.  In the event that the Trustee determines, in good
         faith, that further evidence is required with respect to the right
         of any Person as a holder of Senior Indebtedness to participate in
         any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article, the Trustee
         may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable
         satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of Senior
         Indebtedness held by such Person, as to the extent to which such
         Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution,
         and as to other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under
         this Article, and if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee
         may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial
         determination as to the right of such Person to receive such
         payment.

              Section 13.4  Trustee to Effectuate Subordination.
                            -----------------------------------

              The Holder of each Security by his acceptance thereof
         authorizes and directs the Trustee in his behalf to take such
         action as may be necessary or appropriate to acknowledge or
         effectuate the subordination as provided in this Article and
         appoints the Trustee as attorney-in-fact for any and all such
         purposes.



                                       -74-
<PAGE>   84


              Section 13.5  Trustee Not Charged with Knowledge of
                            -------------------------------------
                            Prohibition.
                            -----------

              Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article or any other
         provision of this Indenture, but subject to the provisions of
         Section 6.1 as between the Holders of Securities and the Trustee,
         neither the Trustee nor any Paying Agent shall be charged with
         knowledge of any facts which would prohibit the making of any
         payment of moneys to or by the Trustee or any such Paying Agent,
         unless and until the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall have
         received written notice thereof at its Corporate Trust Office from
         the Company or any holder of Senior Indebtedness or the trustee or
         representative of the holder of such Senior Indebtedness on his
         behalf; and, prior to the receipt of any such written notice, the
         Trustee and any such Paying Agent shall be entitled to assume that
         no such facts exist.  If the Trustee or Paying Agent, as the case
         may be, shall not have received, at least three Business Days
         prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys
         may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation,
         the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or the
         interest on any Security) with respect to such moneys, the notice
         provided for in this Section, then, anything herein contained to
         the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee and such Paying Agent as
         the case may be, shall have full power and authority to receive
         such moneys and to apply the same to the purpose for which they
         were received and shall not be affected by any notice to the
         contrary which may be received by it within three Business Days
         prior to such date.

              Section 13.6  Rights of Trustee as Holder of Senior
                            -------------------------------------
                            Indebtedness.
                            ------------

              The Trustee shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in
         this Article with respect to any Senior Indebtedness which may be
         at any time held by it to the same extent as any other holder of
         Senior Indebtedness; and nothing in Section 6.13, or elsewhere in
         this Indenture, shall deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as
         such holder.  Nothing in this Article shall apply to claims of, or
         payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Section 6.7.

              Section 13.7  Trustee Not Fiduciary for Holders of Senior
                            -------------------------------------------
                            Indebtedness.
                            ------------

              The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to
         the holders of Senior Indebtedness and shall not be liable to any
         such holders if it shall mistakenly pay over or distribute to
         Holders of Securities or the Company or any other Person moneys or
         assets to which any holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be
         entitled by virtue of this Article or otherwise.



                                       -75-
<PAGE>   85

              Section 13.8  Article Applicable to Paying Agent.
                            ----------------------------------

              In case at any time any Paying Agent other than the Trustee
         shall have been appointed by the Company and be then acting
         hereunder, the term "Trustee" as used in this Article shall in
         such case (unless the context shall otherwise require) be
         construed as extending to and including such Paying Agent within
         its meaning as fully for all intents and purposes as if such
         Paying Agent were named in this Article in addition to or in place
         of the Trustee; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that Section 13.5, 13.6 and
         13.7 shall not apply to the Company if it acts as Paying Agent.


                                     ARTICLE 14

                       REPURCHASE OF SECURITIES AT THE OPTION
                       OF THE HOLDER UPON A CHANGE IN CONTROL

              Section 14.1  Right to Require Repurchase.
                            ---------------------------

              In the event that a Change in Control (as hereinafter
         defined) shall occur, then each Holder shall have the right, at
         the Holder's option, to require the Company to repurchase, and
         upon the exercise of such right the Company shall repurchase, all
         of such Holder's Securities, or any portion of the principal
         amount thereof that is an integral multiple of $1,000, on the date
         (the "Repurchase Date") that is 45 days after the date of the
         Company Notice (as defined in Section 14.2) at a purchase price
         equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be
         repurchased (the "Repurchase Price"), together in each case with
         accrued interest to the Repurchase Date.  Such right to require
         the repurchase of the Securities shall not continue after a
         discharge of the Company from its obligations with respect to the
         Securities in accordance with Article 4, unless a Change in
         Control shall have occurred prior to such discharge.  The
         Repurchase Price shall be paid in cash.

              Section 14.2  Notices; Method of Exercising
                            -----------------------------
                            Repurchase Right, Etc.
                            ----------------------

              (a)  Unless the Company shall have theretofore called for
         redemption all the outstanding Securities, on or before the 30th
         day after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company or,
         at the written request of the Company, the Trustee, shall mail to
         all Holders a notice (the "Company Notice") as prepared by the
         Company of the occurrence of the Change in Control and of the
         repurchase right set forth herein arising as a result thereof.
         The Company shall also deliver a copy of such notice of a
         repurchase right to the Trustee and cause a copy of such notice of



                                       -76-
<PAGE>   86

         a repurchase right, or a summary of the information contained
         therein, to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
         The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and the County of
         Suffolk, The City of Boston, Massachusetts.

              Each notice of a repurchase right shall state:

                   (1)  the Repurchase Date,

                   (2)  the date by which the repurchase right must be
              exercised,

                   (3)  the Repurchase Price,

                   (4)  a description of the procedure which a Holder must
              follow to exercise a repurchase right, and

                   (5)  the conversion price then in effect, the date on
              which the right to convert the principal amount of the
              Securities to be repurchased will terminate and the place or
              places where such Securities may be surrendered for
              conversion or repurchase.

              In addition, at least two Business Days preceding the
         Repurchase Date, the Company shall cause to be published, in a
         newspaper of general circulation in The Borough of Manhattan, The
         City of New York, and the County of Suffolk, The City of Boston,
         Massachusetts a notice specifying whether the Repurchase Price
         will be payable in cash.

              No failure of the Company to give the foregoing notices or
         defect therein shall limit any Holder's right to exercise a
         repurchase right or affect the validity of the proceedings for the
         repurchase of Securities.

              If any of the foregoing provisions are inconsistent with
         applicable law, such law shall govern.

              (b)  To exercise a repurchase right, a Holder shall deliver
         to the Trustee on or before the 30th day after the date of the
         Company Notice (i) written notice of the Holder's exercise of such
         right, which notice shall set forth the name of the Holder, the
         principal amount of the Securities to be repurchased, a statement
         that an election to exercise the repurchase right is being made
         thereby, and (ii) the Securities with respect to which the
         repurchase right is being exercised, duly endorsed for transfer to
         the Company.  Such written notice shall be executed by the Holder





                                       -77-
<PAGE>   87


         and shall be irrevocable, except that the right of the Holder to
         convert the Securities with respect to which the repurchase right
         is being exercised shall continue until the close of business on
         the second Trading Day preceding the Repurchase Date.

              (c)  In the event a repurchase right shall be exercised in
         accordance with the terms hereof, the Company shall pay or cause
         to be paid the Repurchase Price in cash as provided above, to the
         Holder on the Repurchase Date as promptly after the Repurchase
         Date as practicable, together with accrued and unpaid interest to
         the Repurchase Date payable with respect to the Securities as to
         which the repurchase right has been exercised; PROVIDED, HOWEVER,
         that installments of interest that mature on or prior to the
         Repurchase Date shall be payable in cash to the Holders of such
         Securities, or one or more predecessor Securities, registered as
         such at the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date
         according to the terms and provisions of Article 3.

              (d)  If any Security surrendered for repurchase shall not be
         so paid on the Repurchase Date, the principal shall, until paid,
         bear interest to the extent permitted by applicable law from the
         Repurchase Date at the rate borne by the Security and each
         Security shall remain convertible into Common Stock until the
         principal of such Security shall have been paid or duly provided
         for.

              (e)  Any Security which is to be repurchased only in part
         shall be surrendered to the Trustee (with, if the Company or the
         Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument
         of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee
         duly executed by, the holder thereof or his attorney duly
         authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the
         Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such
         Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities, of
         any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in
         aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the
         unrepurchased portion of the principal of the Security so
         surrendered.

              Section 14.3  Certain Definitions.
                            -------------------

              For purposes of this Article:

              (a)  the term "beneficial owner" shall be determined in
         accordance with Rule 13d-3, as in effect on the date of the
         original execution of this Indenture, promulgated by the
         Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities
         Exchange Act of 1934, as amended;




                                       -78-
<PAGE>   88


              (b)  the term "Common Stock" shall mean capital stock of the
         Company that does not rank prior, as to the payment of dividends
         or as to the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or
         involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company,
         to shares of capital stock of any other class of the Company;

              (c)  a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred
         at such time after the original issuance of the Securities as
         there shall occur:

              (i)  the acquisition by any Person of beneficial ownership,
                   directly or indirectly, through a purchase, merger or
                   other acquisition transaction or series of transactions,
                   of shares of capital stock of the Company entitling such
                   Person to exercise 50% or more of the total voting power
                   of all shares of capital stock of the Company entitled
                   to vote generally in the elections of directors (any
                   shares of voting stock of which such Person is the
                   beneficial owner that are not then outstanding being
                   deemed outstanding for purposes of calculating such
                   percentage); or

             (ii)  any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the
                   Company into, any other Person, any merger of another
                   Person into the Company, or any sales or transfer of all
                   or substantially all of the assets of the Company to
                   another Person (other than a merger (x) which does not
                   result in any reclassification, conversion, exchange or
                   cancellation of outstanding shares of Common Stock or
                   (y) which is effected solely to change the jurisdiction
                   of incorporation of the Company and results in a
                   reclassification, conversion or exchange of outstanding
                   shares of Common Stock into solely shares of common
                   stock); or

            (iii)  a change in the Board of Directors of the Company in
                   which the individuals who constituted the Board of
                   Directors of the Company at the beginning of the
                   24-month period immediately preceding such change
                   (together with any other director whose election by the
                   Board of Directors of the Company or whose nomination
                   for election by the stockholders of the Company was
                   approved by a vote of at least a majority of the
                   directors then in office either who were directors at
                   the beginning of such period or whose election or
                   nomination for election was previously so approved)
                   cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the
                   directors then in office;




                                       -79-
<PAGE>   89


         PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that a Change in Control shall not be deemed to
         have occurred if either (x) the Closing Price on any five Trading
         Days within the period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending
         immediately after the later of the date of the Change in Control
         or the date of the public announcement of the Change in Control
         (in the case of a Change in Control under clause (i) above) or the
         period of 10 consecutive Trading Days ending immediately prior to
         the date of the Change in Control (in the case of a Change in
         Control under clause (ii) above) shall equal or exceed 105% of the
         conversion price in effect on each such Trading Day or (y) (i) all
         the consideration (excluding cash payments for fractional shares)
         to be paid for the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions
         constituting the Change in Control consists of shares of common
         stock traded on a national securities exchange or quoted on the
         Nasdaq National Market and as a result of such transaction or
         transactions the Securities become convertible solely into such
         common stock, and (ii) after giving effect to such transaction or
         transactions and for a period of 12 months thereafter, the Notes
         have a rating of (A) "Ba1" or better (or equivalent rating under
         successor ratings classification system) by Moody's Investors
         Services, Inc. and (B) "BBB" or better (or equivalent rating under
         a successor ratings classification system) by Standard & Poor's
         Corporation; and 

              (d)  the term "Person" shall include any syndicate or group
         which would be deemed to be a "person" under Section 13(d)(3) of
         the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as in effect on
         the date of the original execution of this Indenture.

                           ______________________________






















                                       -80-
<PAGE>   90


              This instrument may be executed in any number of
         counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an
         original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but
         one and the same instrument.

              IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
         Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate
         seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and
         year first above written.

         Attestation as to               ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
         the Corporate Seal:


         /S/ William A. Wise             By  /S/ Jerald G. Fishman         
         --------------------------      -------------------------------
             Assistant Clerk             Name:   Jerald G. Fishman
                                         Title:  President and
                                                 Chief Operating Officer



                                         STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST
                                         COMPANY
         Attest:                            As Trustee




         /S/ Ruth A. Smith               By    /S/ Henry W. Seemore        
         --------------------------      -------------------------------
                                           Name:   Henry W. Seemore
                                           Title:  Assistant Vice President










                                       -81-
<PAGE>   91


         COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS )    ss.:
         COUNTY OF SUFFOLK             )


              On the 15TH day of December, 1995, before me personally came
         JERALD G. FISHMAN          to me known, who, being by me duly
         sworn, did depose and say that he is PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING
         OFFICER of Analog Devices, Inc., one of the corporations described
         in and which executed the foregoing instrument; that he knows the
         seal of said corporation; that the seal affixed to said instrument
         is such corporate seal; that it was so affixed by authority of the
         Board of Directors of said corporation, and that he signed his
         name thereto by like authority.



                                             /S/ Rebecca Hughes            
                                       ------------------------------------
                                       My Commission Expires: 8/18/2000

         COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS )    ss.:  
         COUNTY OF SUFFOLK             )


              On the 15TH day of December, 1995, before me personally came
         HENRY W. SEEMORE           to me known, who, being by me duly
         sworn, did depose and say that he/she is AN ASSISTANT VICE
         PRESIDENT of State Street Bank and Trust Company, a Massachusetts
         banking corporation described in and which executed the foregoing
         instrument; that he/she knows the seal of said association; that
         the seal affixed to said instrument is such corporate seal; that
         it was so affixed by authority of the Board of Directors of said
         association, and that he/she signed his/her name thereto by like
         authority.



                                             /S/ Cecil A. Gilbert          
                                       -----------------------------------
                                                 Cecil A. Gilbert
                                                   Notary Public
                                       My Commission Expires July 12, 2002









                                       -82-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.28
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.28

                                     LEASE


                               FERRARI BROTHERS,
                        a California general partnership


                                    Landlord



                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.,
                          a Massachusetts corporation


                                     Tenant




                             DATED: June  16 , 1995
                                         ----


                              ADDRESS OF PREMISES:

                               610 Weddell Drive
                          Sunnyvale, California  94086
                              Fabrication Facility

<PAGE>   2


                                 LEASE SUMMARY


Parties:

      Landlord:     Ferrari Brothers, a California general partnership

      Tenant:       Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation

Premises:           Approximately 27,379 square feet of space as shown
                    in EXHIBIT A.

Building:           610 Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale, California

Scheduled Commencement
Date:               June  16 , 1995

Expiration Date:    March 31, 2000

Base Rent:          Thirty Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000) per month

Security Deposit:   A certificate of deposit as described in Paragraph 4

Tenant's Share of Building:   43.4%

Option(s) to Extend:          Three (3) five-year options

<PAGE>   3

<TABLE>
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
<CAPTION>

                                                                         PAGE
                                                                         ----
<S>  <C>  <C>                                                            <C>
1.   Premises. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
     --------
2.   Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
     ----
3.   Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
     ----
     3.1  Initial Base Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
          ----------------- 
     3.2  Rental Adjustment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
          -----------------
     3.3  Manner of Payment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
          -----------------
     3.4  Late Payment Charge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
          -------------------

4.   Security Deposit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
     ----------------

5.   Taxes.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
     -----
     5.1  Tenant's Personal Property.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
          --------------------------
     5.2  Real Property Taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
          -------------------

6.   Use.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
     ---
     6.1  Permitted Uses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
          --------------
     6.2  Compliance with Law. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
          -------------------

7.   Hazardous Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
     -------------------

8.   Restrictions on Use.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     -------------------

9.   Operating Expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     ------------------

     9.1  Operating Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
          ------------------
     9.2  Monthly Payments.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
          ----------------

10.  Maintenance and Repairs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     -----------------------
     10.1 Tenant's Obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
          --------------------
     10.2 Landlord's Obligations.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
          ----------------------
     10.3 Landlord to Maintain and Control Outside Areas . . . . . . . . 14
          ----------------------------------------------
     10.4 HVAC Replacement and Parking Lot Resurfacing . . . . . . . . . 14
          --------------------------------------------

11.  Alterations.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
     -----------

</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>   4
<TABLE>
<S>  <C>   <C>                                                            <C>
     11.1  Landlord's Consent Required. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
           ---------------------------
     11.2  Plans and Permits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
           -----------------
     11.3  Construction Work Done by Tenant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
           --------------------------------
     11.4  Roof Repairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
           ------------
     11.5  Title to Alterations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
           --------------------
     11.6  Mechanics' Liens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
           ----------------

12.  Utilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
     ---------

13.  Indemnity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
     ---------

     13.1  Indemnity by Tenant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
           -------------------
     13.2  Indemnity by Landlord. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
           ---------------------

14.  Insurance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
     ---------

     14.1  Tenant's Liability Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
           ----------------------------
     14.2  Landlord's Property Insurance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
           -----------------------------
     14.3  Tenant's Property Insurance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
           ---------------------------
     14.4  Payment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
           -------
     14.5  Insurance Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
           ------------------
     14.6  Waiver of Subrogation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
           ---------------------
     14.7  No Limitation of Liability.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
           --------------------------

15.  Damage or Destruction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
     ---------------------
     15.1  Partial Damage - Insured . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
           ------------------------
     15.2  Partial Damage - Uninsured . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
           --------------------------
     15.3  Total Destruction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
           -----------------
     15.4  Damage Near End of Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
           -----------------------
     15.5  Abatement of Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
           -----------------
     15.6  Waiver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           ------
     15.7  Tenant's Property. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           -----------------
     15.8  Notice of Damage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           ----------------
     15.9  Replacement Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           ----------------
     15.10 Disbursement Account.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           --------------------

16.  Condemnation.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
     ------------
     16.1  Partial Taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
           --------------
     16.2  Total Taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
           ------------
     16.3  Distribution of Award. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
           ---------------------
     16.4  Sale Under Threat of Condemnation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
           ---------------------------------
     16.5  Temporary Taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
           ----------------
</TABLE>
                                       ii
<PAGE>   5
<TABLE>
  <S>  <C>  <C>                                                             <C>
  17.  Assignment and Subletting.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
       -------------------------
       17.1 Prohibition of Assignment and Subletting . . . . . . . . . . .  27
            ----------------------------------------
       17.2 Documentation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
            -------------
       17.3 Terms and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
            --------------------

  18.  Events of Default and Remedies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
       ------------------------------
       18.1 Events of Default. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
            -----------------
       18.2 Remedies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
            --------

  19.  Advertisements and Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
       ------------------------

  20.  Entry by Landlord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
       -----------------

  21.  Subordination and Attornment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
       ----------------------------

  22.  Estoppel Certificates and Financial Statements. . . . . . . . . . .  33
       ----------------------------------------------

  23.  Notices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       -------

  24.  Waiver. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       ------

  25.  Attorney's Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       ---------------

  26.  Surrender . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       ---------

  27.  Holding Over. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
       ------------

  28.  Transfer of Premises by Landlord. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
       --------------------------------

  29.  Option(s) to Extend Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
       ------------------------
       29.1 Exercise of Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
            ------------------
       29.2 Rent During Extended Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
            -------------------------
       29.3 Rental Adjustments During Extended Term. . . . . . . . . . . .  37
            ---------------------------------------

  30.  Parking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
       -------

  31.  Reasonable Consent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
       ------------------

  32.  Cure Period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
       -----------
</TABLE>
                                      iii
<PAGE>   6
<TABLE>
  <S>  <C>   <C>                                                             <C>
       32.1  Cure by Landlord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
             ----------------
       32.2  Cure by Tenant.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
             --------------

  33.  Mortgagee Protection.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
       --------------------

  34.  General Provisions.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
       ------------------
       34.1  Entire Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             ---------------- 
       34.2  Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             ----
       34.3  Captions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             --------
       34.4  California Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             --------------
       34.5  Partial Invalidity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             ------------------
       34.6  No Warranties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             -------------
       34.7  Successors and Assigns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             ----------------------
       34.8  Rules and Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             ---------------------
       34.9  Authority. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             ---------
       34.10 Memorandum of Lease. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             -------------------
       34.11 Reasonable Expenditures .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             -----------------------
       34.12 Amendments to Accommodate Lenders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             ---------------------------------
       34.13 Merger.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             ------
       34.14 Force Majeure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             -------------
       34.15 Exhibits.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             --------

  EXHIBITS

       Exhibit "A" -- Premises
       Exhibit "B" -- Property Description
       Exhibit "C" -- Plans and Specifications for Tenant Improvements
       Exhibit "D" -- Plans and Specifications for Additional Improvements
       Exhibit "E" -- Nondisturbance Agreement
       Exhibit "F" -- Memorandum of Lease

</TABLE>


                                       iv
<PAGE>   7
                                     LEASE

       This Lease is made and entered into as of June 1, 1995, by and between
  Ferrari Brothers, a California general partnership ("Landlord"), whose
  address is 1265 Montecito Avenue, Suite 200, Mountain View, California 94043,
  and Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation ("Tenant"), whose
  address is 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062-9106, Attn: Mr.
  William Wise.


       Landlord and Tenant agree to the terms, covenants and conditions of
  this Lease, as follows:

       1.   PREMISES.  Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby
  leases from Landlord for the term, at the rental, and upon all of the other
  terms, covenants and conditions set forth herein, those certain premises (the
  "Premises") as shown on EXHIBIT "A" attached hereto consisting of
  approximately 27,379 square feet of space within that certain building (the
  "Building") situated in the City of Sunnyvale, County of Santa Clara, State
  of California, commonly known as 610 Weddell Drive and more particularly
  described in EXHIBIT "B" attached hereto.  Tenant is entering into this Lease
  in conjunction with its acquisition of certain fabrication facility assets
  situated on the Premises from Performance Semiconductor Corporation ("PSC"),
  the prior tenant of the Premises.

  Tenant shall also have the exclusive right to use the loading docks (if any)
  contiguous to the Premises and located within the Outside Areas, and the
  nonexclusive right to use all other portions of the Outside Areas in common
  with other tenants from time to time occupying space within the Building
  together with their respective agents, contractors, and other invitees.
  Landlord reserves the right to grant such easements burdening the Outside
  Areas as Landlord in its reasonable discretion deems appropriate provided the
  same do not unreasonably interfere with Tenant's ability to use the Outside
  Areas.  Tenant at it sole expense shall maintain the water monitoring wells
  located within the Outside Areas as shown on EXHIBIT "B."

       The parcel of land on which the Building is situated, together with the
  Building and all other improvements now or hereafter located thereon, is
  hereafter called the "Project."

       The portion of the parcel of land described above not covered by the
  Building is hereafter called the "Outside Areas."

                                       1
<PAGE>   8

       "Tenant's Share" as used in this Lease means that percentage of the
  total number of square feet of leasable space in the Building which is
  contained in the Premises, which the parties agree is Forty-Three and Four
  Tenths percent (43.4%).

       2.   TERM.  The term of this Lease shall commence on June 16, 1995 (the
  "Commencement Date"), and end on March 31, 2000 (the "Expiration Date"),
  unless sooner terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof.

       3.   Rent.
            ----
            3.1  INITIAL BASE RENT. Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant
  shall pay to Landlord for each calendar month of the term of this Lease,
  monthly base rent (hereafter called "Base Rent"), in the amount of Thirty
  Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000).  Base Rent shall be subject to adjustment
  from time to time as set forth in Paragraph 3.2.

            3.2  RENTAL ADJUSTMENT.  The monthly Base Rent payable hereunder
  shall be adjusted as of April 1, 1996 and as of April 1 of each successive
  year (each such date herein called a "Rental Adjustment Date") during the
  term of this Lease to reflect any changes in the cost of living.  The
  adjustment or adjustments, if any, shall be calculated upon the basis of the
  United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics CONSUMER PRICE
  INDEX FOR ALL URBAN CONSUMERS, FOR SAN FRANCISCO-OAKLAND-SAN JOSE
  (1982-84=100), hereafter referred to as the "Index".  The Index for said
  subgroup most recently published as of April 1, 1995 shall be considered the
  "base".  On the first Rental Adjustment Date, the monthly Base Rent shall be
  adjusted by the percentage increase, if any, in the Index as of the Rental
  Adjustment Date, over the base.  On each subsequent Rental Adjustment Date,
  the monthly Base Rent (as previously adjusted) shall be further adjusted by
  the percentage increase, if any, in the Index as of the Rental Adjustment
  Date over the Index as of the preceding Rental Adjustment Date.  When the
  Base Rent is determined upon the Rental Adjustment Date, Landlord shall give
  Tenant written notice to that effect indicating how the new Base Rent figure
  was computed in accordance with this paragraph.  If the Index does not exist
  on any Rental Adjustment Date in the same format as referred to in this
  paragraph, Landlord shall substitute in lieu thereof an index reasonably
  comparable to the Index referred to above which is then published by the
  Bureau of Labor Statistics, or by a successor or similar governmental agency,
  or, if no governmental agency then publishes an index, Landlord shall
  substitute therefor any commonly accepted index designed to reflect changes
  in the cost of living which is published by a reputable private organization.


                                       2
<PAGE>   9

            3.3  MANNER OF PAYMENT.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord the rent
  calculated as set forth above without deduction, offset, or abatement (except
  as expressly otherwise provided in Paragraphs 15.5, 16.1, and 16.5 below),
  and without prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each
  calendar month of the term of this Lease.  Rent shall be payable in lawful
  money of the United States to Landlord at 1265 Montecito Avenue, Suite 200,
  Mountain View, California 94043 or at such other place as Landlord may from
  time to time designate in writing.  Tenant's obligation to pay rent for any
  partial month shall be prorated on the basis of a thirty (30) day month.

            3.4  LATE PAYMENT CHARGE.  If any installment of rent or any other
  sum due from Tenant is not received by Landlord within ten (10) days after
  the due date, Tenant shall pay to Landlord an additional sum of Seven Hundred
  Dollars ($700.00).  Such sum shall represent liquidated damages for, and a
  reasonable estimate of, Landlord's administrative costs of collection, the
  exact amount of which would be extremely difficult or impractical to fix.
  Landlord's acceptance of such late charge shall not excuse any default by
  Tenant hereunder, and shall not preclude Landlord from pursuing any other
  rights and remedies it may have relating to such default.

       4.   SECURITY DEPOSIT.  Prior to the Commencement Date, Tenant shall
  establish a Certificate of Deposit in the name of Analog Devices, Inc.  in
  favor of Ferrari Brothers, a California general partnership, in the sum of
  Nineteen Thousand Three Hundred Sixty Two Dollars and Twenty Two Cents
  ($19,362.22).  It is specifically agreed that Landlord shall have access to
  the funds represented by the Certificate of Deposit only for the purposes and
  under the conditions set forth herein.  The Certificate of Deposit shall be
  renewable on an annual basis and shall be renewed by Tenant at least thirty
  (30) days prior to the scheduled maturity thereof each year.  The Certificate
  of Deposit, as the same may be renewed from time-to-time, shall remain in
  effect at least until the sooner of the expiration of this Lease or thirty
  (30) days after the sooner termination thereof, and in all events at least
  until ten (10) days after Tenant has vacated the Premises.  If Tenant fails
  to pay rent or any other sum due hereunder, or otherwise defaults with
  respect to any provision of this Lease, Landlord may draw sums from the
  Certificate of Deposit for the payment of any rent or other sum in default,
  or to compensate Landlord for the payment of any other sum, including
  attorneys' fees, which Landlord spends by reason of Tenant's default.
  Landlord may draw upon the Certificate of Deposit without prejudice to any
  other remedy Landlord may have by reason of Tenant's default or breach.  If
  Landlord so draws all or a portion of the Certificate of Deposit, Tenant
  shall, within twenty (20) days after demand in writing therefor, restore the
  amount of the Certificate of Deposit to the original amount thereof.

                                       3
<PAGE>   10

       5.   Taxes.
            -----
            5.1  TENANT'S PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Tenant shall pay directly to the
  charging authority prior to delinquency all taxes assessed against and levied
  upon Tenant's leasehold improvements, trade fixtures, furnishings, equipment
  and all other personal property and merchandise of Tenant situated in or
  about the Premises.

            5.2  REAL PROPERTY TAXES.  Tenant's Share of all Real Property
  Taxes (as hereafter defined) levied with respect to the Project shall be
  deemed Operating Expenses as described in Paragraph 9 below.

                 The term "Real Property Taxes" as used herein shall mean (i)
  all taxes, assessments, levies, and other charges of any kind or nature
  whatsoever, general and special (including all installments of principal and
  interest required to pay for any general or special assessments for public
  improvements, services, or benefits and any increases resulting from
  reassessments caused by any change in ownership, new construction, or change
  in valuation), now or hereafter imposed by any governmental or
  quasi-governmental authority or special district having the direct or
  indirect power to tax or levy assessments, which are levied or assessed
  against or with respect to (a) the value, occupancy or use of the Project (as
  now constructed or as may at any time hereinafter be constructed, altered, or
  otherwise changed), (b) the fixtures, equipment, and other real or personal
  property of Landlord that are an integral part of the Project, (c) the gross
  receipts, income, and rentals from the Project, or (d) the use of the Outside
  Areas, public utilities, or energy within the Project; (ii) all charges,
  levies or fees imposed by reason of environmental regulation or other
  governmental control of the Project; (iii) all new exercise, transaction,
  sales, privilege or other taxes now or hereafter imposed upon Landlord as a
  result of this Lease; and (iv) all reasonable costs and fees (including
  attorneys' fees) incurred by Landlord in contesting any Real Property Taxes
  pertaining to the Project and in negotiating with public authorities as to
  any Real Property Taxes pertaining to the Project.  If at any time during the
  lease term the taxation or assessment of the Project prevailing as of the
  Commencement Date shall be altered so that in lieu of or in addition to any
  Real Property Taxes described above there shall be levied, assessed or
  imposed (whether by reason of a change in the method of taxation or
  assessment, creation of a new tax or charge, or any other cause) an
  alternate, substitute, or additional tax or charge (i) on the value, use or
  occupancy of the Project, (ii) on or measured by the gross receipts, income,
  or rentals from the Project, or on Landlord's business of leasing the
  Project, or (iii) computed in any manner with respect to the operation of the
  Project, then any such tax or charge, however designated, shall be included
  within the meaning of the term "Real Property Taxes" for purposes of the
  Lease.  If any Real Property Tax

                                       4
<PAGE>   11
  is based upon property or rents unrelated to the Project, then only that part
  of such Real Property Tax that is fairly allocable to the Project shall be
  included within the meaning of the term "Real Property Taxes."
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Real Property Taxes" shall not
  include estate, inheritance, transfer, gift or franchise taxes of Landlord or
  the federal or state net income tax imposed on Landlord's income from all
  sources.

                 Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall have no obligation
  to pay any increase in Real Property Taxes due to a reassessment of the value
  of the Premises under Article XIIIA of the California Constitution to the
  extent such reassessment results from new construction on land adjacent to
  the Premises owned by Landlord and included within the tax parcel of which
  the Premises are a part.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
  relieve Tenant of the obligation of paying its share of increases in taxes
  under said Article XIIIA or any other provision of law in accordance with the
  provisions of this Lease, except as specifically set forth above in this
  paragraph.

                 Real Property Taxes shall be prorated on the basis of a
  365-day year to account for any fractional portion of a fiscal tax year
  included in the Lease term at the commencement or expiration of the term.

                 If any general or special assessment is levied and assessed
  against the Premises, Landlord may elect either to pay the assessment in full
  or to allow the assessment to go to bond.  If Landlord pays the assessment in
  full, Operating Expenses shall include a sum equal to that which would have
  been payable (as both principal and interest) had Landlord allowed the
  assessment to go to bond.

                 Tenant shall have the right, upon written request to Landlord,
  to inspect each and every original tax bill relating to taxes assessed during
  the Lease term against the Premises or the tax parcel of which the Premises
  are a part.  Landlord shall make such original tax bill available for
  Tenant's inspection at Landlord's headquarters or at such other reasonable
  place as Landlord may determine, during reasonable business hours.

                 Tenant at its cost shall have the right, at any time, to
  contest any Real Property Taxes that are to be paid by Tenant, provided that
  Tenant shall first pay any Real Property Taxes it desires to contest.
  Landlord shall not be required to join in any contest brought by Tenant
  unless the provisions of any law require that the contest be brought by or in
  the name of Landlord or any owner of the Premises.  In that case Landlord
  shall join in the contest or permit it to be brought in Landlord's

                                       5
<PAGE>   12
  name as long as Landlord is not required to bear any cost.  Tenant, on final
  determination of the contest, shall immediately pay or discharge any decision
  or judgement rendered, together with all costs, charges, interest, and
  penalties incidental to the decision or judgement.

                 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Tenant shall only be
  required to pay charges by the Environmental Protection Agency or other
  governmental agencies relating to cleaning up contamination on, under, or
  about the Premises to the extent such contamination results from Tenant's use
  of the Premises or is caused by Tenant to exist in, on, or about the
  Premises, and such expense shall be limited to costs incurred to perform such
  investigations and clean-up as may be required by law.  It is expressly
  understood that, except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 7 below, Tenant
  shall have no liability in connection with any contamination of the Premises
  occurring before Tenant's entry into the Premises, or occurring after
  expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term and Tenant's vacating of
  the Premises, except to the extent Tenant causes such contamination.

       6.   Use.
            ---
            6.1  PERMITTED USES.  The Premises shall be used and occupied only
  for the following purposes: office, research, development, manufacturing and
  sale of electronic components, and for no other use or purpose without first
  obtaining Landlord's written consent which shall not be unreasonably
  withheld.

            6.2  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.  Tenant shall at its sole expense at all
  times during the Lease term comply with all laws, statutes, ordinances,
  regulations, codes or other rules and regulations of lawful governmental
  authority (collectively "Regulations") relating to the Premises.
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Lease, Landlord shall
  perform and pay for all modifications to the structure of the Building (i.e.,
  the exterior walls, roof structure and building foundation), required in
  order to comply with any such Regulations, unless the need for compliance is
  (a) caused by Tenant's particular use of the Premises (rather than merely
  being a requirement for all buildings within the jurisdiction of such
  governmental authority), or (b) caused by any new construction performed by
  or on behalf of Tenant in, on or about the Premises (except to the extent
  that during the process of such new construction violations of codes in
  effect at the time Landlord constructed the Building are found, in which case
  Landlord shall be solely liable for the cost of curing such violations).
  Tenant shall perform and pay for any and all improvements or other
  modifications required to be made with respect to any improvements made to
  the Premises by Tenant, and all other portions of the Premises except as
  provided in the

                                       7

<PAGE>   13
  second sentence of this paragraph.  Without limiting the generality of the
  foregoing, Tenant specifically shall perform and pay at its sole cost for any
  and all work required to bring the Premises into compliance with the
  Americans with Disabilities Act and the Toxic Gas Ordinance.

       7.   Hazardous Materials.
            -------------------
            As used herein, "Hazardous Materials" means any hazardous, toxic,
  environmentally damaging or radioactive materials, substances or wastes,
  including, but not limited to, those materials, substances or wastes: (1)
  defined or listed as hazardous or extremely hazardous materials or wastes
  pursuant to Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 30, of the California Code of
  Regulations, as may be amended; (2) defined or listed as hazardous substances
  pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
  Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. _ 9601, et seq., as may be amended; (3) defined or
  listed as hazardous or acutely hazardous wastes pursuant to the Resource
  Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. _ 6901, et seq., as may be amended;
  and/or (4) which consist in whole or part of petroleum, petroleum fractions,
  petroleum products or petroleum distillates.

            Tenant shall not cause or permit to be discharged from or about the
  Premises, the Building, or the Project any Hazardous Materials.  Without
  limiting the foregoing, Tenant shall not cause or permit to be discharged any
  Hazardous Materials into the groundwater or soils underlying or adjacent to
  the Premises, Building or Project.  Prior to its occupancy of the Premises
  Tenant shall provide Landlord with a copy of the following items relating to
  Tenant's bringing, using, or storing any Hazardous Materials on the Premises:
  (i) a copy of Tenant's Material Safety Data Sheet in the same form submitted
  to OSHA, (ii) a written detailed description of where on the Premises Tenant
  intends to store Hazardous Materials and the manner (volume and type of
  containers for each Hazardous Material, and method of securing the same
  against movement) in which such Hazardous Materials will be stored, and (iii)
  a general description of the processes for which the Hazardous Materials will
  be used.  Tenant shall deliver to Landlord in writing a detailed description
  of any updates to or other modifications of the foregoing as and when they
  occur.

            Tenant, at its sole expense shall comply with all applicable
  governmental rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, statutes, directives and
  other requirements (collectively, "Laws") respecting Hazardous Materials in
  connection with Tenant's activities and the activities of its agents,
  employees, contractors and invitees on or about the Premises, the Building or
  the Project.  Tenant, at its sole cost, shall perform all investigations,
  clean-up and other response actions which may be required by any

                                       7

<PAGE>   14
  governmental authority in, on, or about the Project, to the extent the same
  relate to Hazardous Materials the existence of which in, on or about the
  Project was caused by Tenant or its agents, contractors, employees, or
  invitees.  For purposes of this Paragraph 7 and all other provisions of this
  Lease, any Hazardous Materials existing in, on or about the Project which are
  of the same type, or which are derivative combinations or products thereof,
  of any Hazardous Materials or other chemicals or substances which have at any
  time been used, stored, generated, or released in, at, about or from the
  Premises shall be deemed to have been released and caused to exist in, on or
  about the Project by Tenant unless Tenant demonstrates by a preponderance of
  the evidence that the existence of such Hazardous Materials was not caused by
  Tenant.  For purposes of this Paragraph 7, Hazardous Materials located in, on
  or about the Premises, Building, or Project shall include without limitation
  Hazardous Materials situated in the groundwater or soil.

            Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless Landlord
  from and against all costs (including, but not limited to, environmental
  response costs and Landlord's attorneys' and experts' fees and costs),
  expenses, claims, judgments, losses, demands, liabilities, causes of action,
  governmental directives, proceedings or hearings, relating to the use,
  handling, generation, storage, transportation, release or disposal of
  Hazardous Materials by Tenant, or its employees, agents, invitees or
  contractors on, in, beneath, about or from, the Premises, the Building or the
  Project, and/or relating to the breach of any of Tenant's obligations under
  this Paragraph 7.  Tenant's obligation to defend shall mean with legal
  counsel approved by Landlord, which approval shall not unreasonably be
  withheld or delayed.  Without limitation of the foregoing, in the event
  Tenant, its employees, agents, invitees or contractors, causes or has caused
  the presence of Hazardous Materials in, on, or about the Premises, or in the
  groundwater or land underlying the Premises or the Building, or, in, on, or
  about any groundwater or land adjacent to, on, in the vicinity of the
  Premises, Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend, and hold harmless Landlord
  from and against the cost of environmental consultants, attorneys, and other
  consultants as Landlord determines are appropriate to assist Landlord in (1)
  investigating the source, extent, and composition of such Hazardous
  Materials, (2) cleaning up or otherwise remediating the same, (3) dealing
  with any potential or actual liability of Landlord and/or Tenant respecting
  such Hazardous Materials, and (4) otherwise dealing with such Hazardous
  Materials.  Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for (i) losses in or reductions
  to rental income resulting from Tenant's use, handling, generation, storage,
  transportation, release or disposal of Hazardous Materials; (ii) all costs of
  clean-up or other alterations to the Premises, the Building or the Project
  necessitated by Tenant's use, handling, generation, storage, transportation,
  release or disposal of Hazardous Materials; and (iii) any diminution in the
  fair market value of the Project caused by

                                       8

<PAGE>   15
  Tenant's use, handling, generation, storage, transportation, release or
  disposal of Hazardous Materials.

            Tenant shall notify Landlord in writing, immediately upon becoming
  aware of:  (1) any environmental investigation, clean-up or other
  environmental response action requested, demanded, instituted or to be
  instituted by any person, including but not limited to a governmental entity,
  relating to any release or migration of Hazardous Materials on, in, beneath,
  to or adjacent to the Premises, the Building or the Project; (2) any
  environmental investigation, cleanup or other environmental response action
  requested, demanded, instituted or to be instituted by any person, including
  a governmental entity, relating to the use, handling, generation, storage,
  transportation, release or disposal of Hazardous Materials by Tenant, its
  employees, agents, invitees or contractors on, in, beneath, about or from the
  Premises, the Building or the Project; (3) any claim or demand made or
  threatened by any person, including but not limited to a governmental entity,
  against the Landlord or Tenant, the Premises, the Building or the Project
  relating to damages, contribution, cost recovery, compensation, loss or
  injury relating to or claimed to result from any Hazardous Materials that
  have come to be located on or about the Premises, the Building or the
  Project; or (4) any data, workplans, proposals or reports submitted to any
  governmental entity arising out of or in connection with any Hazardous
  Materials on or about the Premises, the Building or the Project, including
  but not limited to any complaints, notices, warnings or asserted violations
  in connection therewith.

            Landlord shall have the right, but not the obligation, in its sole
  discretion, to conduct any inspections of the Premises, the Building and the
  Project regarding Hazardous Materials on, in, beneath or about same.
  Landlord shall give Tenant forty-eight (48) hours advance notice of any such
  inspection, except in the event of an emergency situation.  When conducting
  any such inspections, Landlord shall avoid unreasonably disrupting Tenant's
  activities.  Tenant shall provide Landlord with reasonable cooperation to
  facilitate any such inspection by Landlord, its agents or representatives.

            Under no circumstances shall Tenant install, temporarily or
  permanently, any underground or below-floor tanks relating to the use,
  storage or disposal of Hazardous Materials.

            Prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease, Tenant shall
  decontaminate, remove or clean any equipment, improvements or facilities used
  by Tenant at the Premises, Building or Project in connection with Hazardous
  Materials, in full compliance with applicable Laws.


                                       9

<PAGE>   16

            To the extent any of the provisions of this Lease conflict with the
  provisions of Paragraph 7, the provisions of Paragraph 7 shall be
  controlling.  The obligations of Tenant under this Paragraph 7 shall survive
  the expiration of the Lease term.

       8.   RESTRICTIONS ON USE.  Tenant shall not use or permit the use of the
  Premises in any manner that will tend to create waste on the Premises or
  constitute a nuisance to any other occupant or user of the Building or any
  neighboring building.  Tenant shall not place any harmful liquids or other
  substances in the drainage system of the Building or use any apparatus,
  machinery or other equipment in or about the Premises that may cause
  substantial noise or vibration or overload existing electrical systems, or
  otherwise place any unusual loads upon the floors, walls, or ceilings of the
  Premises which may overload the Premises or jeopardize the structural
  integrity of the Building or any part thereof.  Tenant shall not make any
  penetrations of the roof or exterior of the Building without the prior
  written approval of Landlord.  No materials or articles of any nature shall
  be stored upon any portion of the Outside Areas unless located within an
  enclosure approved by Landlord.
                                  
       9.   Operating Expenses.
            ------------------
            9.1  OPERATING EXPENSES.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord as
  additional rent hereunder one-half (1/2) of Tenant's Share of the total
  amount of Operating Expenses (as defined below) as may be paid or incurred by
  Landlord during the term of this Lease.

                 The term "Operating Expenses" shall mean all costs and
  disbursements which Landlord shall pay or become obligated to pay in
  connection with maintaining, repairing, managing and operating the Project,
  including, without limitation (i) Real Property Taxes, (ii) the insurance
  premiums for insurance which Landlord is required or entitled to maintain
  related to the Project as described below in Paragraph 14, (iii) the
  maintenance, repair and operation of the Project, including but not limited
  to, all labor, materials, supplies and services, and the cost of all
  maintenance contracts, used or consumed in performing Landlord's maintenance
  and repair obligations hereunder, (iv) landscaping costs related to the
  Project, (v) wages, salaries and benefits of all employees or consultants
  engaged in the operation, maintenance and security of the Project, including
  taxes, insurance and benefits relating thereto, (vi) any replacements or
  capital improvements to the Project, except as otherwise specified in
  Paragraph 6.2 above or in Paragraph 10 below, (vii) utility services which
  are not separately metered to the premises of the tenants of the Building,
  and (viii) janitorial services.  Additionally, Tenant's Share of Operating

                                       10
<PAGE>   17

  Expenses shall include a management fee for Landlord's management, operation
  and administration of the Project equal to five percent (5%) of the total
  Operating Expenses hereunder excluding insurance premiums and Real Property
  Taxes.  To the extent the useful life of any improvement or item repaired or
  replaced by Landlord in connection with its maintenance or repair of the
  Project exceeds three (3) years, as reasonably determined by Landlord, the
  cost thereof shall be amortized, together with interest thereon at the
  prevailing rate available to Landlord from commercial banks, over such
  reasonable period as Landlord shall determine and such amortized cost shall
  be included in Operating Expenses.  If the useful life of any such
  improvement or item repaired or replaced is three (3) years or less, then the
  cost thereof shall be deemed expensed and included immediately in its
  entirety in Operating Expenses, except as otherwise specified in Paragraph
  6.2 above or in Paragraph 10 below.

                 In addition to the foregoing, Tenant shall reimburse Landlord
  in full upon demand for any damage to the Premises, the Building or the
  Outside Areas which is caused by Tenant, its agents, employees, contractors
  or invitees.

                 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, it is expressly
  understood that Operating Expenses do not include (i) amounts due under loans
  encumbering the Premises, or payments of rent under ground leases of the
  Premises, (ii) depreciation of the Building or of any building service
  equipment, (iii) brokerage commissions incurred in connection with leasing
  all or any portion of the Building, (iv) attorneys' fees, accounting costs,
  and other costs directly related to leasing space in the Building, (v) damage
  caused by the active negligence, wilful misconduct, or omissions (subject to
  Paragraph 32.1) of the Landlord or its employees, agents, or contractors,
  (vi) damage to the Project caused by any other tenants of the Project, or
  their respective employees, agents, or contractors, and (vii) expenses
  related to repairing construction defects in the Building shell.

                 Tenant shall have the right to inspect the books and records
  of Landlord relating to the calculation of Operating Expenses no more often
  than one time in any twelve month period during the term of the Lease for
  purposes of verifying the accuracy of Landlord's calculation of the amount of
  Operating Expenses.  Tenant shall exercise such right by delivery to Landlord
  of notice of Tenant's desire to so inspect such books and records, and dates
  and times during normal business hours during which Tenant would like to
  inspect the same, whereupon Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant
  to provide reasonable access to such books and records at Landlord's offices.


                                       11
<PAGE>   18
            9.2  MONTHLY PAYMENTS.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord on the first
  day of each calendar month during the term hereof an amount estimated by
  Landlord to be one-twelfth (1/12) of Tenant's Share of one half (1/2) of the
  Operating Expenses for such twelve (12) month period.  Landlord estimates
  that one-twelfth (1/12) of Tenant's Share of one half (1/2) of the Operating
  Expenses for the initial year of the term will be $2,387 (based on annual
  Operating Expenses for the Project of $132,000).  On or before March 15 of
  each calendar year during the term hereof Landlord shall furnish Tenant a
  statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
  principles, consistently applied, covering the preceding calendar year and
  the payments made by Tenant with respect to such period as set forth in this
  Paragraph 9.  If Tenant's payments for Operating Expenses during said period
  did not equal one-half (1/2) of the actual amount of Tenant's share of
  Operating Expenses, Tenant shall pay to Landlord the deficiency with its next
  due installment of Base Rent after receipt of such statement.  If said
  payments exceed the actual amount due hereunder, Landlord shall credit the
  excess against the next installment(s) of Base Rent.  Operating Expenses
  shall be prorated as of the Commencement Date and the Expiration Date (or the
  date of any sooner termination of the term of this Lease) to reflect the
  portion of the calendar year occurring within the lease term.

       10.  Maintenance and Repairs.
            -----------------------
            10.1 TENANT'S OBLIGATIONS.  Except as otherwise specifically
  provided herein, Tenant shall, at Tenant's expense, keep in good and safe
  condition, order and repair the Premises and every part thereof, including
  without limitation, all plumbing, heating, air conditioning, ventilating,
  fire sprinklers, electrical and lighting facilities, systems, appliances, and
  equipment within the Premises; and all fixtures, interior walls, interior
  surfaces of exterior walls, floors, ceilings, windows, doors, entrances, all
  glass (including plate glass), and skylights located within the Premises.
  Prior to the Commencement Date or promptly thereafter, Tenant at its sole
  cost shall install an electrical meter measuring all electrical service
  provided to the Premises, and shall install a new transformer serving only
  the Premises; such installation shall be subject to the provisions of
  Paragraph 11 hereof relating to alterations to the Premises.  Tenant shall,
  at Tenant's expense, maintain at all times during the term of this Lease the
  heating, ventilating and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems serving the
  Premises in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, which maintenance
  at a minimum shall include replacement of filters, oiling and lubricating of
  machinery, parts replacement, adjustment of drive belts, oil changes,
  weatherproofing of all exposed HVAC equipment and ducts, and other preventive
  maintenance; provided, however, that Tenant shall have the benefit of all
  warranties available to Landlord regarding the equipment in said systems.
  Tenant hereby waives the benefit of any statute now or

                                       12
<PAGE>   19

  hereafter in effect which would otherwise afford Tenant the right to make
  repairs at Landlord's expense or to terminate this Lease because of
  Landlord's failure to keep the Premises in good condition, order and repair.
  Tenant specifically waives all rights it may have under Sections 1932(1),
  1941, and 1942 of the California Civil Code, and any similar or successor
  statute or law.

                 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
  Lease, Tenant shall in no event be responsible for performing, or paying for
  the performance of, repair and maintenance of the Premises or the Building to
  the extent the same: (i) is caused by the active negligence, wilful
  misconduct, or omissions (subject to Paragraph 32.1) of Landlord or its
  agents, employees or contractors, (ii) is necessitated by the negligence or
  wilful misconduct of other tenants in the Building, or their agents,
  employees, or contractors;  (iii) is necessitated by the occurrence of any
  peril required to be insured under policies of insurance required to be
  obtained by Landlord under this Lease, or (iv) results from construction
  defects of the Building.  The liability of Tenant shall also be limited to
  the extent Landlord receives reimbursement from others, including insurers,
  guarantors, other tenants in the Building, and contractors.

            10.2 LANDLORD'S OBLIGATIONS.  Landlord shall keep in good
  condition, order and repair the foundation and exterior walls of the Building
  (excluding the interior of all walls and the exterior and interior of all
  windows, doors, plate glass, and show cases), and the exterior roof of the
  Building (except that Tenant shall repair at Tenant's expense any damage
  caused by the activities of Tenant, Tenant's HVAC maintenance service
  contractor, and/or Tenant's other agents on the roof, including but not
  limited to the installation of air conditioning equipment and/or duct work,
  or other roof penetrations, and improper flashing or caulking, and any damage
  to exposed air conditioning equipment and duct-work installed by or for
  Tenant).  Expenses  incurred by Landlord in connection with the above
  described obligations shall be Operating Expenses hereunder, except for
  expenses incurred in connection with maintaining the roof structure (but not
  the roof membrane), foundation and exterior walls of the Building which shall
  be borne solely by Landlord.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall not
  be required to pay as Operating Expenses the cost of any repair or
  maintenance respecting the roof membrane which Tenant is able to demonstrate
  to the reasonable satisfaction of Landlord is required as a result of
  Landlord's activity on the roof or a defect in construction performed by
  Landlord.  Landlord shall also paint the Building from time to time as
  reasonably necessary, and the cost thereof shall be an Operating Expense.
  Landlord shall exercise reasonable diligence in performing such repairs as
  soon as practicable.  However, Landlord shall have no obligation to make
  repairs under this Paragraph 10.2 until a reasonable time after Landlord's
  receipt of written notice from Tenant of the need for such repairs.

                                       13

<PAGE>   20
  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, there shall be no abatement
  of rent or other sums payable by Tenant prior to or during any repairs by
  Tenant or Landlord, and Tenant waives all claims for loss of business or lost
  profits relating to any such repairs.

            10.3 LANDLORD TO MAINTAIN AND CONTROL OUTSIDE AREAS.  Landlord
  shall maintain the Outside Areas, together with all facilities and
  improvements now or hereafter located thereon, and together with all street
  improvements or other improvements adjacent thereto as may be required from
  time to time by governmental authority.  The manner in which such areas shall
  be maintained and the expenditures therefor shall be at the sole discretion
  of Landlord; provided that Landlord maintains the Outside Areas in such a
  fashion as achieves substantially the same level of quality in which Landlord
  maintained the Outside Areas during PSC's occupancy of the Premises.
  Landlord shall at all times have exclusive control of the Outside Areas and
  may at any time temporarily close any part thereof, may exclude and restrain
  anyone from any part thereof (except the bona fide customers, employees and
  invitees of Tenant who use the Outside Areas in accordance with the rules and
  regulations that Landlord may from time to time promulgate), and Landlord may
  change the configuration of the Outside Areas or the location of facilities
  thereon so long as any such change by Landlord does not unreasonably
  interfere with Tenant's use of the Premises.  Landlord shall also be entitled
  to employ third parties to operate and maintain all or any part of such areas
  on such terms and conditions as Landlord shall in its sole discretion deem
  reasonable and proper.  In exercising any such rights, Landlord shall make a
  reasonable effort to minimize any disruption of Tenant's business.

            10.4 HVAC REPLACEMENT AND PARKING LOT RESURFACING.  If the HVAC
  equipment (or any portion thereof) servicing the office portion of the
  Premises (as opposed to the manufacturing portion of the Premises, for which
  Tenant shall be solely liable for HVAC replacement costs) must be replaced at
  any time during the Lease term, or the parking lot adjacent to the Building
  servicing the tenants of the Building requires Major Resurfacing (as defined
  below), as reasonably determined by Landlord, at any time during the Lease
  term, then the cost of such replacement or resurfacing, as the case may be,
  shall be borne by both Landlord and Tenant in accordance with the following
  formula.  Tenant shall pay such portion of the cost which is equal to 43.4%
  of a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of years remaining in the
  Lease term, and the denominator of which is the useful life (as reasonably
  determined by Landlord) of the new HVAC system, or the resurfaced parking
  lot, as the case may be.  In the event Tenant should exercise any options to
  extend the Lease term which extended terms commence after such replacement or
  resurfacing, then Tenant shall

                                       14

<PAGE>   21
  pay to Landlord upon commencement of each such extended term the difference
  between the amount owed by Tenant pursuant to the immediately preceding
  sentence, and the amount calculated pursuant to the preceding sentence
  assuming that the remaining term of the Lease includes the years of such
  extended term.  For purposes of this subparagraph, "Major Resurfacing" shall
  be defined to mean any resurfacing of the parking lot the cost of which
  exceeds Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00); to the extent the cost of
  resurfacing is less than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), then the entire
  cost shall be an Operating Expense in the year in which it is incurred by
  Landlord.

       11.  Alterations.
            -----------            
            11.1 LANDLORD'S CONSENT REQUIRED.  Tenant shall not, without
  Landlord's prior written consent (which consent shall not unreasonably be
  withheld or delayed beyond thirty (30) days after Tenant's written request to
  Landlord to make the same) make any alterations, improvements, additions, or
  utility installations (collectively called "alterations") in, on or about the
  Premises, except for nonstructural alterations which during any twelve (12)
  month period, in the aggregate, cost no more than Twenty Thousand Dollars
  ($20,000).  As used in this Paragraph 11.1, the term "utility installation"
  means power panels, wiring, fluorescent fixtures, space heaters, conduits,
  air conditioning and plumbing.  Should Tenant make any alterations
  requiring the prior written consent of Landlord without obtaining such
  consent, Tenant shall immediately remove the same at Tenant's expense upon
  demand by Landlord.

            11.2 PLANS AND PERMITS.  Any alteration that Tenant shall desire to
  make in or about the Premises and which requires the consent of Landlord
  shall be presented to Landlord in written form, with proposed detailed plans
  and specifications therefor prepared at Tenant's sole expense.  Any consent
  by Landlord thereto shall be deemed conditioned upon Tenant's acquisition of
  all permits required to make such alteration from all appropriate
  governmental agencies, the furnishing of copies thereof to Landlord prior to
  commencement of the work, and the compliance by Tenant with all conditions of
  said permits in a prompt and expeditious manner, all at Tenant's sole
  expense.  Upon completion of any alterations whether or not Landlord's
  consent thereto is required, Tenant, at Tenant's sole cost, shall immediately
  deliver to Landlord "as-built" plans and specifications therefor.

            11.3 CONSTRUCTION WORK DONE BY TENANT.  All construction work
  required or permitted to be done by Tenant shall be performed by licensed
  contractors in a prompt, diligent, and good and workmanlike manner, and shall
  not materially

                                      15

<PAGE>   22
  diminish the value of the Building.  Furthermore, all such construction work
  shall conform in quality and design with the Premises existing as of the time
  such work is performed.  In addition, all such construction work shall be
  performed in compliance with all applicable statutes, ordinances,
  regulations, codes and orders of governmental authorities and insurers of the
  Premises.  Tenant or its agents shall obtain and pay for all licenses and
  permits necessary therefor.

            11.4 ROOF REPAIRS.  All installation of air conditioning equipment
  and duct work requiring penetration of the roof shall be properly flashed and
  caulked.  Any electrical or refrigeration conduits or other piping or
  materials installed by Tenant in the Building shall be installed beneath the
  surface of the roof (and not on the surface of the roof), and Tenant shall
  thereafter repair and re-roof the affected portions of the roof surface.  Any
  equipment placed by Tenant on the roof shall be elevated and supported by
  Tenant so as not to inhibit drainage or Landlord's repair of the roof
  pursuant to Paragraph 10.2.

            11.5 TITLE TO ALTERATIONS.  Except as otherwise provided
  hereinbelow, Tenant shall at all times retain title to any alterations, and
  shall be entitled to claim any depreciation, investment tax credits, and
  other tax benefits available in connection therewith.  Tenant shall also be
  entitled to remove any alterations installed by Tenant at its own expense,
  provided such removal can be accomplished without causing damage to
  structural portions of the Building, and provided further that Tenant at its
  sole expense promptly repairs any and all damage occasioned by such removal.
  If at the time Tenant installs or constructs any alterations, Tenant requests
  and receives Landlord's permission to leave such alterations on the Premises
  upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term, then Tenant shall
  have no obligation to remove the same upon expiration or sooner termination
  of the Lease term.  If Tenant fails at the time of installation to request or
  obtain Landlord's consent to leaving such alterations on the Premises upon
  expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term, then Landlord shall be
  entitled to require Tenant to remove the same and restore the Premises to its
  original condition subject to reasonable wear and tear, perils, and Acts of
  God, prior to expiration or promptly after sooner termination of the Lease
  term, at Tenant's sole cost and expense.  Tenant shall be entitled to leave
  the Tenant Improvements in the Premises upon expiration or sooner termination
  of the Lease term.  Tenant shall be obligated to remove the Additional
  Improvements upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term.  The
  rights of Landlord and obligations of Tenant under this paragraph shall
  survive termination of the Lease term.

                 All alterations and other property of Tenant which remain on
  the Premises upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term, subject
  to the
                                      
                                      16
<PAGE>   23
  preceding subparagraph, shall be deemed abandoned by Tenant and at Landlord's
  sole election shall be deemed the sole property of Landlord without need for
  consideration therefor from Landlord to Tenant.

                 Landlord, within ten (10) days after demand from Tenant, shall
  execute and deliver any documents required by any supplier, lessor, or lender
  in connection with the installation in the Premises of Tenant's personal
  property or Tenant's trade fixtures in which Landlord waives any rights it
  may have or require with respect to that property, if the supplier, lessor,
  or lender agrees in writing that (a) it will remove that property from the
  Premises before the expiration of the Lease term or within thirty (30) days
  after sooner termination of the term, provided that if it does not remove the
  property within said period it shall have waived any rights it may have had
  to the property, and (b) it shall repair any damage to the Premises
  occasioned by such removal at its sole cost and expense within five (5) days
  after such removal.

            11.6 MECHANICS' LIENS.  Tenant shall keep the Premises, the
  Building, and the Project free from any liens arising out of any work
  performed, materials furnished or obligations incurred by Tenant.  In the
  event that Tenant shall not, within ten (10) days following the imposition of
  any such lien, cause the same to be released of record, Landlord shall have,
  in addition to all other remedies provided herein and by law, the right, but
  no obligation, to cause the same to be released by such means as Landlord
  shall deem proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such lien.
  All sums paid by Landlord for such purpose, and all reasonable expenses
  incurred by it in connection therewith, shall be  payable to Landlord by
  Tenant on demand with interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, or
  the maximum rate permitted by law, whichever is less.  Tenant shall give
  Landlord notice of the date of commencement of any work in the Premises not
  less than ten (10) days prior thereto, and Landlord shall have the right to
  post notices of non-responsibility or similar notices in or on the Premises
  in connection therewith.          

       12.  UTILITIES.  Prior to Tenant's occupancy of the Premises, or
  promptly thereafter, Tenant at its sole cost shall separately meter all
  utilities serving the Premises.  For all periods of time prior to such
  separate metering, Tenant shall pay fifty percent (50%) of all utilities
  costs which are not separately metered and which are provided to the
  Building.  Such separate metering shall be deemed an alteration of the
  Premises which is subject to the provisions of Paragraph 11 above.  Tenant
  shall pay when due directly to the charging authority all charges for water,
  gas, electricity, telephone, refuse pickup, janitorial services, and all
  other utilities and services supplied or furnished to the Premises during the
  term of this Lease, together with any taxes thereon.  In no event shall
  Landlord be liable to Tenant for failure or

                                      17
<PAGE>   24
  interruption of any such utilities or services, unless caused by the willful
  misconduct of Landlord, and no such failure or interruption shall entitle 
  Tenant to terminate this Lease or to withhold rent or other sums due 
  hereunder.  Landlord shall not be responsible for providing security guards 
  or other security protection for all or any portion of the Premises, and 
  Tenant shall at its own expense provide or obtain such security services as 
  Tenant shall desire to insure the safety of the Premises.
               
       13.  Indemnity.
            ---------
            13.1 INDEMNITY BY TENANT.  Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend,
  and hold harmless Landlord from and against any and all claims, damages,
  loss, proceedings, causes of action, costs, expense or liability due to, but
  not limited to, bodily injury, including death resulting at any time
  therefrom, and/or property damage, now or hereafter arising from any act,
  work or things done or permitted to be done or otherwise suffered, or any
  omission in or about the Premises, the Building, or the Project, by Tenant or
  by any of Tenant's agents, employees, contractors, or invitees, or from any
  breach or default by Tenant in the performance of any obligation on the part
  of Tenant to be performed under the terms of this Lease, except to the extent
  such damage, loss, expense or liability is caused by the active negligence,
  willful misconduct or omission (subject to Paragraph 32.1) of Landlord or its
  agents, employees or contractors.  Tenant shall also indemnify Landlord from
  and against all damage, loss, expense (including without limitation,
  attorneys' fees, costs of investigation, and expert witness fees), and
  liability incurred or suffered by Landlord in the defense of or arising out
  of or resulting from any claim or any action or proceeding brought thereon.
  In the event any action or proceeding shall be brought against Landlord by
  reason of any such claim, Tenant upon notice from Landlord shall defend the
  same at Tenant's expense with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Landlord.
  The obligations of Tenant contained in this paragraph shall survive the
  termination of this Lease.

            13.2 INDEMNITY BY LANDLORD.  Landlord hereby indemnifies Tenant
  from and against all damages arising out of any damage to any person or
  property occurring in, on or about the Premises and the Building resulting
  from the active negligence, wilful misconduct, or omissions (subject to
  Paragraph 32.1) of Landlord or its employees, agents and contractors, or from
  a breach of Landlord's obligations under the Lease, except to the extent
  caused by the acts or omissions of Tenant or its authorized representatives.
  Landlord's obligation under this paragraph to indemnify Tenant shall be
  limited to the sum that exceeds the amount of insurance proceeds, if any,
  received by Tenant as a result of such damage.
                                       
                                      18
<PAGE>   25

            Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision in this Lease,
  Landlord shall in no event be liable to Tenant for lost profits of Tenant
  unless the same result from the wilful misconduct of Landlord, and Tenant
  hereby releases Landlord from liability for any such loss profits to such
  extent.  This provision shall not be construed to release Landlord from any
  claim for damages arising from Landlord's wilful misconduct, to the extent
  such damages do not relate to lost profits.

       14.  Insurance.
            ---------
            14.1 TENANT'S LIABILITY INSURANCE.  Tenant shall, at its sole cost
  and expense, obtain and keep in force during the term of this Lease either
  Comprehensive General Liability insurance or Commercial General Liability
  insurance applying to the use and occupancy of the Premises and the business
  operated by Tenant, or any other occupant, on the Premises.  Such insurance
  shall include Broad Form Contractual liability insurance coverage.  Such
  coverage shall have a minimum combined single limit of liability of at least
  Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000).  All such policies shall be written to
  apply to all bodily injury, property damage, personal injury and other
  covered loss, however occasioned.  All such policies shall be endorsed to add
  Landlord and any lender or other party having an interest in the Premises
  named by Landlord as an additional insured and to provide that any insurance
  maintained by Landlord shall be excess insurance only.  All such insurance
  shall provide for severability of interests; shall provide that an act or
  omission of one of the insureds shall not reduce or avoid coverage to the
  other insureds; and shall afford coverage for all claims based on acts,
  omissions, injury and damage, which claims occurred or arose (or the onset of
  which occurred or arose) in whole or in part during the policy period.  The
  limits of all insurance described in this Paragraph 14.1 shall not, however,
  limit the liability of Tenant hereunder.

            14.2 LANDLORD'S PROPERTY INSURANCE.  Landlord shall obtain and keep
  in force during the term of this Lease a policy or policies of insurance
  covering loss or damage to the Project in the amount of the full replacement
  value thereof, providing protection against all perils included within the
  classification of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief,
  special extended perils (all risk), including boiler and machinery coverage
  and an inflation endorsement, and, if available, flood and/or earthquake.
  Such coverage shall include the Tenant Improvements described on EXHIBIT "C",
  but shall exclude coverage of (i) the Additional Improvements described on
  Exhibit "D" and all other leasehold improvements, additions, and alterations
  other than the Tenant Improvements described on EXHIBIT "C" existing from
  time to time on the Premises, and (iii) merchandise, fixtures, equipment and
  other personal property of Tenant.  In addition, Landlord shall obtain and
  keep in force,

                                      19
<PAGE>   26

  during the term of this Lease, a policy of rental loss insurance
  covering a period of one year, commencing on the date of loss, with proceeds
  payable to Landlord, which insurance may also cover all Real Property Taxes,
  insurance premiums, other Operating Expenses, and other sums payable by
  Tenant to Landlord hereunder for said period.  The insurance coverage may
  include sprinkler leakage insurance if the Building contains fire sprinklers. 
  Tenant shall have no interest in or right to the proceeds of any such
  insurance carried by Landlord.

                 Landlord shall make available to Tenant for Tenant's
  inspection all insurance bills received by Landlord from time to time
  relating to insurance required to be obtained by Landlord pursuant to this
  paragraph.  It is understood that Landlord's insurance policy covering the
  Premises shall also cover the full replacement value of the Tenant
  Improvements, and that the proceeds of such insurance shall belong to
  Landlord and Tenant shall have no interest therein.  In the event Tenant
  reasonably demonstrates to Landlord that Landlord can obtain insurance for
  the Premises, or the Building if Landlord obtains insurance for the entire
  Building rather than the Premises alone, at a rate which is 90% or less of
  the premiums charged for such insurance as has been obtained by Landlord,
  then Landlord at Tenant's written request shall obtain a policy of property
  insurance at such lower rate, provided such policy can be obtained with an
  insurer authorized to do business in the State of California which insurer
  has a financial rating of at least A 14 as rated in the most recent addition
  of Best's Insurance Reports, and such policy has reasonably comparable
  coverage and deductible amounts.  Tenant shall not be required to pay any
  increases in property insurance costs to the extent such increases are caused
  by other tenants' uses of the Building in which the Premises are located.
  Similarly, Tenant shall be solely liable for any increases in property
  insurance costs to the extent such increases are caused by Tenant's use of
  the Premises or Tenant's activities thereon.

            14.3 TENANT'S PROPERTY INSURANCE.  Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole
  expense, obtain and keep in force during the term of this Lease, a policy of
  fire and extended coverage insurance including a standard "all risk"
  endorsement, insuring (i) the Additional Improvements described on EXHIBIT
  "D" and all other leasehold improvements, additions, and alterations existing
  from time to time in or to the Premises other than the Tenant Improvements
  described on EXHIBIT "C", and (iii) merchandise, fixtures, equipment and
  other personal property of Tenant within the Premises.  Such insurance
  coverage shall be for the full replacement value thereof, as the same may
  increase from time to time due to inflation or otherwise.  The proceeds from
  any such policies shall be used for the repair or replacement of such items
  so insured (except for the proceeds arising from damage to the Additional
  Improvements, which may be used as Tenant desires for purposes which may be

                                      20

<PAGE>   27

  unrelated to repair or replacement of the Additional Improvements), and
  Landlord shall have no interest in the proceeds of such insurance.

            14.4 PAYMENT.  Tenant's Share of the premiums for the insurance
  obtained by Landlord pursuant to Paragraph 14.2 shall be deemed an Operating
  Expense hereunder.  Upon request by Tenant, Landlord shall consult with
  Tenant and reasonably cooperate with Tenant to achieve the mix of premium
  amounts and deductible amounts for such insurance that are satisfactory to
  Tenant; provided that, Landlord's determination of the amounts thereof shall
  be final and Tenant's comments regarding same shall be advisory only.  Tenant
  shall pay to Landlord the entire amount of any deductibles and other amounts
  not paid by Landlord's insurance carriers relating to claims under Landlord's
  insurance policies resulting from the acts or omissions of Tenant, or its
  agents, employees, and invitees.  Tenant shall pay such deductibles to
  Landlord within thirty (30) days after receipt by Tenant of a copy of
  reasonable evidence of the amount due.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
  Landlord may obtain liability insurance and property insurance for the
  Project separately, or together with other buildings and improvements under
  blanket policies of insurance.  In the latter case Tenant shall be liable for
  only such portion of the premiums for such blanket policies as are allocable
  to the Premises, as reasonably determined by the insurer or Landlord.  If the
  term of this Lease does not commence or expire concurrently with the
  commencement or expiration, respectively, of the period covered by such
  insurance, Tenant's liability for premiums shall be prorated on an annual
  basis.

            14.5 INSURANCE POLICIES.  The insurance required to be obtained by
  Tenant pursuant to this paragraph shall be primary insurance and (a) shall
  provide that the insurer shall be liable for the full amount of the loss up
  to and including the total amount of liability set forth in the declarations
  without the right of contribution from any other insurance coverage of
  Landlord, (b) shall be in a form and contain a deductible amount satisfactory
  to Landlord, (c) shall be carried with companies acceptable to Landlord, and
  (d) shall specifically provide that such policies shall not be subject to
  cancellation, reduction of coverage or other change except after at least
  fifteen (15) days prior written notice to Landlord.  The policy or policies,
  or duly executed certificates for them, together with satisfactory evidence
  of payment of the premium thereon, shall be deposited with Landlord on or
  prior to the Commencement Date, and upon each renewal of such policies, which
  shall be effected not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration
  date of the term of such coverage.  Tenant shall not do or permit to be done
  anything which shall invalidate any of the insurance policies referred to in
  this Paragraph 14.

                                      21
<PAGE>   28

            14.6 WAIVER OF SUBROGATION.  Tenant and Landlord each hereby waives
  any and all rights of recovery against the other, or against the officers,
  employees, agents and representatives of the other, for loss of or damage to
  the property of the waiving party or the property of others under its
  control, where such loss or damage is insured against under any insurance
  policy carried by Landlord or Tenant and in force at the time of such loss or
  damage.  Tenant and Landlord shall, upon obtaining the policies of insurance
  required hereunder, give notice to the insurance carrier or carriers that the
  foregoing mutual waiver of subrogation is contained in this Lease.  Landlord
  and Tenant shall use their best efforts to cause each insurance policy
  obtained by such party to provide that the insurance company waives all
  rights of recovery by way of subrogation against the other party in
  connection with any damage covered by such policy and, if any such waiver of
  subrogation is not obtained, shall promptly notify the other party of such
  fact.

            14.7 NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  Landlord makes no representation
  that the limits of liability specified to be carried by Tenant or Landlord
  under the terms of this Lease are adequate to protect any party.  If Tenant
  believes that the insurance coverage required under this Lease is
  insufficient to adequately protect Tenant, Tenant shall provide, at its own
  expense, such additional insurance as Tenant deems adequate.

       15.  Damage or Destruction.
            ---------------------
            15.1 PARTIAL DAMAGE - INSURED.  Subject to the provisions of
  Paragraphs 15.3 and 15.4 below, if the Premises or the Building, as the case
  may be, are damaged such that restoration thereof can in Landlord's
  reasonable estimation be completed within two hundred ten (210) days, and the
  damage is caused by a peril required to be insured against by Landlord
  pursuant to Paragraph 14, Landlord shall at Landlord's expense repair such
  damage as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall continue in full
  force and effect.  In the event Landlord maintains earthquake insurance
  (which the parties acknowledge Landlord is not obligated by this Lease to
  carry), then subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15.3 and 15.4 below, if
  the Premises or the Building, as the case may be, are damaged such that
  restoration thereof can in Landlord's reasonable estimation be completed
  within two hundred ten (210) days, and the damage is caused by earthquake,
  Landlord shall, subject to the following provisions of this Paragraph 15.1,
  repair such damage as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall
  continue in full force and effect.  At such time as the amount of the
  deductible for the earthquake damage is determined by the insurance company
  and Landlord agrees to such amount, Landlord shall deliver notice thereof to
  Tenant.  On or before the Tenant's Share Payment Date (as defined below),
  Tenant

                                      22
<PAGE>   29
  shall deliver to a depository in accordance with the provisions of
  Paragraph 15.10 the following sums in cash or other readily available funds: 
  (i) 43.4% of the amount by which the amount of such deductible exceeds Fifty
  Thousand Dollars ($50,000), provided that Tenant shall not be obligated to
  pay more than 43.4% of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) under this
  subparagraph (i), and (ii) 43.4% of one half of the amount by which such
  deductible exceeds One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000).  The formula set
  forth in the preceding sentence is based upon the Landlord paying the first
  Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) of the earthquake deductible, all tenants in
  the Building together paying the next Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) of the
  earthquake deductible, and Landlord on the one hand and said Building tenants
  on the other hand each paying one half of any earthquake deductible amount
  exceeding One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) (all such amounts payable
  by all tenants of the Building herein called the "Aggregate Building Tenants'
  Share").  The "Tenant's Share Payment Date" shall mean (i) fifteen (15) days
  after Landlord delivers notice to Tenant of the deductible amount if the
  amount of the earthquake deductible payable by Tenant pursuant to the
  foregoing is Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) or less, and (ii) forty five
  (45) days after Landlord delivers notice to Tenant of the deductible amount
  if the amount payable by Tenant is more than Fifty Thousand Dollars
  ($50,000).  In the event Tenant fails to pay such amount for any reason by
  the Tenant's Share Payment Date, or in the event Landlord does not receive by
  the Tenant's Share Payment Date the Aggregate Building Tenants' Share, then
  Landlord shall have no obligation to commence or complete repair of such
  earthquake damage, and shall be entitled to terminate this Lease by delivery
  to Tenant of notice of such termination within ten (10) days after the
  Tenant's Share Payment Date; provided that Landlord shall be entitled to, but
  shall have no obligation to, repair all such earthquake damage at Landlord's
  expense, including payment of the deductible, such election to so repair to
  be made by Landlord's delivery of notice thereof to Tenant within ten (10)
  days after the Tenant's Share Payment Date, in which event this Lease shall
  remain in full force and effect.

            15.2 PARTIAL DAMAGE - UNINSURED.  Subject to the provisions of
  Paragraphs 15.3 and 15.4, if at any time during the term hereof the Premises
  are damaged and the damage is caused by a peril (other than earthquake) not
  required to be insured by Landlord pursuant to Paragraph 14, Landlord may at
  Landlord's option either (a) repair such damage as soon as reasonably
  possible at Landlord's expense, in which event this Lease shall continue in
  full force and effect, or (b) give written notice of termination of this
  Lease to Tenant within thirty (30) days after the date of the occurrence of
  such damage, with the effective date of such termination to be the date of
  the occurrence of such damage.  In the event Landlord gives such notice of
  termination of this Lease, Tenant shall have the right, within ten (10) days
  after receipt

                                      23
<PAGE>   30
  of such notice, to agree in writing on a basis satisfactory to Landlord to
  pay for the entire cost of repairing such damage less only the amount of
  insurance proceeds, if any, received by Landlord, in which event the notice
  of termination shall be ineffective and this Lease shall continue in full
  force and effect, and Landlord shall proceed to make such repairs as soon as
  reasonably possible.  If Tenant does not give such notice within such ten
  (10) day period, this Lease shall be terminated pursuant to such notice of
  termination by Landlord.

            15.3 TOTAL DESTRUCTION.  If at any time during the term hereof the
  Premises are destroyed such that restoration thereof cannot in Landlord's
  reasonable estimation be completed in two hundred ten (210) days, from any
  cause whether or not covered by the insurance maintained pursuant to
  Paragraph 14, this Lease shall at the election of Landlord or Tenant
  terminate as of the date of such destruction.  Landlord and Tenant shall
  exercise their respective rights to terminate this Lease under this
  subparagraph 15.3 by delivery of notice of termination to the other within
  thirty (30) days after Landlord notifies Tenant of the estimated period of
  restoration.  In the event neither party elects to so terminate this Lease,
  Landlord shall at Landlord's expense repair such damage, and restore the
  Premises and the Tenant Improvements to their condition existing immediately
  prior to such damage as soon as reasonably possible, and this Lease shall
  continue in full force and effect.

            15.4 DAMAGE NEAR END OF TERM.  If the Premises are destroyed or
  damaged in whole or in part to the extent of One Hundred Thousand Dollars
  ($100,00.00) or more whether from an insured or uninsured casualty, during
  the last year of the term of this Lease, either party may at its option
  cancel and terminate this Lease as of the date of occurrence of such damage
  by giving written notice to the other party within thirty (30) days after the
  date of occurrence of such damage.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Tenant
  is then entitled to exercise any option to extend the term of this Lease
  pursuant to other provisions of this Lease, and Tenant exercises such option
  in accordance with such provision, then this Lease shall not be terminated
  under this subparagraph (although it may be terminated in accordance with
  subparagraph 15.3 above or other provisions of this Lease, to the extent
  applicable).

            15.5 ABATEMENT OF RENT.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
  contained in this Lease, if the Premises are damaged, the Base Rent payable
  hereunder for the period commencing on the occurrence of such damage shall be
  abated until completion of repair or restoration of such damage, or
  termination of the Lease (if the Lease is terminated pursuant to other
  provisions of this Lease).  Such abatement of Base Rent shall be in
  proportion to the extent to which Tenant's use of the Premises is impaired
  during said period of time; provided that, nothing herein shall

                                      24

<PAGE>   31
  be construed to preclude Landlord from being entitled to collect the
  full amount of any rental loss insurance proceeds.  In addition to abatement
  of Base Rent, Tenant's obligation to pay Operating Expenses shall also be
  abated to the extent of proceeds therefor, if any, received by Landlord under
  the rent abatement policy required to be maintained by Landlord under
  Paragraph 14.2 above.  Except for such abatement of Base Rent and Operating
  Expenses, if any, and subject to Paragraph 13.2, Tenant shall have no claim
  against Landlord for any damage suffered by reason of any such damage,
  destruction, repair or restoration.

            15.6  WAIVER.  Tenant waives the provisions of California Civil Code
  Sections 1932(2) and 1933(4), and any similar or successor statutes relating
  to termination of leases when the thing leased is substantially or entirely
  destroyed, and agrees that any such occurrence shall instead be governed by
  the terms of this Lease.

            15.7  TENANT'S PROPERTY.  Landlord's obligation to rebuild or
  restore shall not include restoration of the Additional Improvements, or
  Tenant's trade fixtures, equipment, merchandise, or any other improvements,
  alterations or additions made by Tenant to the Premises after the
  Commencement Date or made by PSC at any time during its occupancy of the
  Premises from 1985 through May of 1995.

            15.8  NOTICE OF DAMAGE.  Tenant shall notify Landlord within five
  (5) days after the occurrence thereof of any damage to all or any portion of
  the Premises.  In no event shall Landlord have any obligation to repair or
  restore the Premises pursuant to this Paragraph 15 until a reasonable period
  of time after Landlord's receipt of notice from Tenant of the nature and
  scope of any damage to the Premises, and a reasonable period of time to
  collect insurance proceeds arising from such damage (unless such damage is
  clearly not covered by insurance then in effect covering the Premises).
  Landlord shall proceed diligently to collect insurance proceeds, and shall
  commence any obligation it may have to repair the Premises as promptly as
  reasonably possible.

            15.9  REPLACEMENT COST.  The determination by a third party expert
  or consultant, selected by Landlord in its reasonable discretion, of the
  estimated period of repair of any damage shall be conclusive for purposes of
  this Paragraph 15.  Such determination shall be made within thirty (30) days
  of the date of damage, provided Tenant notifies Landlord of such damage in
  accordance with subparagraph 15.8 above.

            15.10 DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNT.  In the event Landlord is required
  to restore the Premises pursuant to any of the provisions of this Paragraph
  15, then Landlord shall deposit any insurance proceeds received in connection
  therewith with


                                      25
<PAGE>   32

  an institutional trustee or other depository reasonably acceptable to Tenant,
  and the proceeds of such insurance shall be drawn from time to time to cover
  costs of such restoration only upon submission by Landlord of invoices for
  such costs or other reasonable evidence of Landlord of the costs incurred to
  the date of such requested draw.

       16.  Condemnation.
            ------------
            16.1 PARTIAL TAKING.  Subject to Paragraph 16.5, if part of the
  Premises is taken for any public or quasi-public use, under any statute or
  right of eminent domain (collectively a "taking"), and a part of the Premises
  remains which is reasonably suitable for Tenant's continued occupancy for the
  uses permitted by this Lease, and a portion of the parking area within the
  Project remains which is equivalent to at least eighty percent (80%) of the
  parking area in the Project as of the Commencement Date, this Lease shall, as
  to the part so taken, terminate as of the date the condemnor or purchaser
  takes possession of the property being taken, and the monthly Base Rent
  payable hereunder shall be reduced in the same proportion that the floor area
  of the portion of the Premises so taken bears to the floor area of the
  Premises immediately prior to such taking.  Landlord shall, at its own cost
  and expense, make all necessary repairs or alterations to the Premises in
  order to make the portion of the Premises not taken a complete architectural
  unit.  Such work shall not, however, exceed the scope of the work done by
  Landlord in originally constructing the Premises.  Each party hereto waives
  the provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1265.130
  allowing either party to petition the superior court to terminate this Lease
  in the event of a partial taking of the Premises.

            16.2 TOTAL TAKING.  Subject to Paragraph 16.5, if all of the
  Premises are taken, or such part thereof is taken so that there does not
  remain a portion of the Premises suitable for Tenant's continued occupancy
  for the uses permitted hereunder, or more than twenty percent (20%) of the
  parking area in the Project as of the Commencement Date is taken, such taking
  shall be treated as a total taking and this Lease shall terminate upon the
  date possession shall be taken by the condemning authority.

            16.3 DISTRIBUTION OF AWARD.  All compensation awarded upon a taking
  governed by Paragraph 16.1 or Paragraph 16.2 shall belong to and be paid to
  Landlord, except that Tenant shall be entitled to make a separate claim to
  the taking authority for all losses it suffers as a consequence of the
  taking, including losses relating to loss of use of the Additional
  Improvements.

                                      26
<PAGE>   33

            16.4 SALE UNDER THREAT OF CONDEMNATION.  A sale by Landlord to any
  authority having the power of eminent domain, either under threat of
  condemnation or while condemnation proceedings are pending, shall be deemed a
  taking under the power of eminent domain for purposes of this Paragraph 16.

            16.5 TEMPORARY TAKING.  If all or any part of the Premises is
  occupied, taken, or appropriated by military or other public or quasi-public
  use or other governmental authority for less than one hundred eighty (180)
  consecutive days, it shall not constitute a taking of the Premises which
  would be governed by Paragraph 16.1 or Paragraph 16.2.  In such event, during
  such a "temporary taking," all of the provisions of this Lease shall remain
  in force and effect, except that the monthly Base Rent and Operating Expenses
  payable during such temporary taking shall be reduced in the same proportion
  that the floor area of the portion of the Premises so occupied, taken, or
  appropriated bears to the floor area of the Premises as of the day
  immediately preceding the occupation, taking, or appropriation.  Any award
  that may be paid in connection with such a temporary taking shall be paid to
  Landlord.  In the event a taking which appears, at its commencement, to be
  only a temporary taking nevertheless continues for one hundred eighty (180)
  consecutive days or more, a partial or total taking, as the case may be,
  shall be deemed to have occurred on the one hundred eightieth (180th)
  consecutive day of such taking, and shall be governed by the provisions of
  either Paragraph 16.1 or Paragraph 16.2 as the case may be.

      17.   Assignment and Subletting.
            -------------------------
            17.1 PROHIBITION OF ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.  Tenant shall not
  assign this Lease, or any interest therein, voluntarily or involuntarily, and
  shall not sublet the Premises or any part thereof, or any right or privilege
  appurtenant thereto, or suffer any other person (the agents and servants of
  Tenant excepted) to occupy or use the Premises, or any portion thereof,
  without the prior written consent of Landlord in each instance pursuant to
  the terms and conditions set forth below, which consent shall not
  unreasonably be withheld or delayed beyond the twenty (20) day period
  specified in Paragraph 17.2.  Any assignment or subletting by Tenant without
  the written consent of Landlord shall be void and shall, at the option of
  Landlord, terminate this Lease.

            17.2 DOCUMENTATION.  Prior to any assignment or sublease which
  Tenant desires to make, Tenant shall provide to Landlord the name and address
  of the proposed assignee or sublessee, a statement of the proposed use of the
  Premises by the assignee or sublessee (including an indication of the extent
  to and manner in which Hazardous Materials will be utilized), and true and
  complete copies of all documents relating to Tenant's prospective agreement
  to assign or sublease, and shall specify all

                                      27

<PAGE>   34
  consideration to be received by Tenant for such assignment or sublease in the
  form of lump sum payments, installments of rent, or otherwise.  For purposes
  of this Paragraph 17, the term "consideration" shall include, without
  limitation, all monies or other consideration of any kind, if such sums are
  related to Tenant's interest in this Lease or in the Premises, including but
  not limited to, bonus money, and payments (in excess of book value thereof)
  for Tenant's assets, fixtures, inventory, accounts, good will, equipment,
  furniture, general intangibles, and any capital stock or other equity
  ownership of Tenant.  Within twenty (20) days after the receipt of such
  written notice, Landlord shall either consent in writing to such proposed
  assignment or sublease subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set
  forth, or notify Tenant in writing that Landlord  refuses such consent,
  specifying reasonable grounds for such refusal.

            17.3 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  As a condition to Landlord's granting
  its consent to any assignment or sublease, Tenant and the proposed assignee
  or sublessee must demonstrate to Landlord's reasonable satisfaction that the
  assignee or sublessee is financially responsible and that the proposed use
  does not pose an unreasonable risk (as determined by Landlord in its
  reasonable discretion) of contamination of the Project with Hazardous
  Materials and is not otherwise injurious to the Premises.  Without limiting
  the generality of the foregoing, Landlord shall be entitled to withhold
  consent to any proposed assignment of this Lease unless Tenant demonstrates
  to the reasonable satisfaction of Landlord that the proposed assignee has a
  net worth equal to at least the greater of (a) Eleven Million Dollars
  ($11,000,000.00), or (b) such greater net worth as Analog Devices, Inc. or
  its successor may have at the time of such proposed assignment, up to
  Eighteen Million Dollars ($18,000,000.00).  As a condition for granting its
  consent to any proposed assignment or subletting, Landlord may require that
  Tenant agree to pay to Landlord, as additional rent, as and when received by
  Tenant, and after first deducting reasonable real estate brokerage
  commissions and attorneys' fees, if any, incurred in connection with such
  assignment or subletting, fifty percent (50%) of the excess, if any, of (i)
  the fair market value rent (triple net) of the Premises, determined as set
  forth below, assuming such amount is payable for the duration of the term of
  such assignment or sublease, over (ii) the Base Rent payable by Tenant to
  Landlord under the Lease at the time of such sublease or assignment, assuming
  such amount is payable for the duration of the term of such assignment or
  sublease.  The fair market value rent for the Premises, for purposes of the
  preceding sentence, shall be determined without regard to the value added to
  the Premises by the specialized additions and improvements to the Premises
  installed by Tenant at its own expense or previously installed by PSC at
  PSC's expense solely for its manufacturing business on the Premises, such as
  clean rooms, process equipment, and trade fixtures.  In the event Landlord
  and Tenant are unable to agree upon the fair market value rent

                                      28
<PAGE>   35

  of the Premises, the dispute shall be arbitrated in accordance with the rules
  of the American Arbitration Association.

                 Tenant may assign its interest in the Lease without the prior
  written consent of Landlord to any corporation which controls or is
  controlled by Analog Devices, Inc., or any corporation which results from a
  merger or consolidation with Analog Devices, Inc.; provided that such
  assignment is made to an entity that satisfies the net worth criteria set
  forth hereinabove.

                 Each assignment or sublease agreement to which Landlord has
  consented shall be an instrument in writing in form satisfactory to Landlord,
  and shall be executed by both Tenant and the assignee or sublessee, as the
  case may be.  Each such assignment or sublease agreement shall recite that it
  is and shall be subject and subordinate to the provisions of this Lease, that
  the assignee or sublessee accepts such assignment or sublease and agrees to
  perform all of the obligations of Tenant hereunder, and that the termination
  of this Lease shall, at Landlord's sole election, constitute a termination of
  every such assignment or sublease.  In the event Landlord shall consent to an
  assignment or sublease, Analog Devices, Inc. shall nonetheless remain
  primarily liable for all obligations and liabilities of Tenant under this
  Lease, including but not limited to the payment of rent.

       18.  Events of Default and Remedies.
            ------------------------------
            18.1 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.  A breach of this Lease shall exist if any
  of the following events (hereinafter referred to as "Event of Default") shall
  occur:

                 (1)  Failure of Tenant to pay within five (5) days after
  delivery of notice from Landlord that any installment of rent of other
  payment required to be made by Tenant hereunder is due;

                 (2)  Tenant's failure to perform any other term, covenant or
  condition contained in this Lease and such failure shall have continued for
  thirty (30) days after written notice of such failure is delivered to Tenant
  or such longer period as may reasonably be necessary to cure such failure
  provided Tenant commences such cure within said thirty (30) days and
  thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion;

                 (3)  Tenant's vacating or abandonment of Premises;

                 (4)  Tenant's assignment of its assets for the benefit of its
  creditors;

                                      29
<PAGE>   36

                 (5)  The sequestration of, attachment of, or execution on, any
  substantial part of the property of Tenant or on a property essential to the
  conduct of Tenant's business, shall have occurred and Tenant shall have
  failed to obtain a return or release of such property within thirty (30) days
  thereafter, or prior to sale pursuant to such sequestration, attachment of
  whichever is earlier; or

                 (6)  A court having jurisdiction shall have made or entered
  any decree or order (a) adjudging Tenant to be bankrupt or insolvent, (b)
  approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of Tenant or an
  arrangement under the bankruptcy laws or any other applicable debtors' relief
  law or statute of the United States or any State thereof, (c) appointing a
  receiver, trustee or assignee of Tenant in bankruptcy or insolvency or for
  its property, or (d) directing the winding up or liquidation of Tenant; and
  such decree or order shall have continued for a period of thirty (30) days;
  or Tenant shall have voluntarily submitted to or filed a petition seeking any
  such decree of order.

            18.2 REMEDIES.  Upon any Event of Default, Landlord shall have the
  following remedies, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided by
  law, to which Landlord may resort cumulatively, or in the alternative:

                 (1)  RECOVERY OF RENT.  Landlord shall be entitled to keep
  this Lease in full force and effect (whether or not Tenant shall have
  abandoned the Premises) and to enforce all of its rights and remedies under
  this Lease, including the right to recover rent and other sums as they become
  due, plus interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the due
  date of each installment of rent or other sum until paid.

                 (2)  TERMINATION.  Landlord may terminate this Lease by giving
  Tenant written notice of termination.  On the giving of such notice all
  Tenant's rights in the Premises and the Building and parcel of which the
  Premises are a part shall terminate.  Upon the giving of the notice of
  termination, Tenant shall surrender and vacate the Premises in the condition
  required by Paragraph 26, and Landlord may reenter and take possession of the
  Premises and all the remaining improvements and property and eject Tenant or
  any of Tenant's subtenants, assignees or other person or persons claiming any
  right under or through Tenant or eject some and not others or eject none.
  This Lease may also be terminated by a judgement specifically providing for
  termination.  Any termination under this paragraph shall not release Tenant
  from the payment of any sum then due Landlord or from any claim for damages
  or rent previously accrued or then accruing against Tenant.  In no event
  shall any one or more of the following actions by Landlord constitute a
  termination of this Lease:

                                      30
<PAGE>   37

                      (a)  maintenance and preservation of the Premises;

                      (b)  efforts to relet the Premises;

                      (c)  appointment of a receiver in order to protect
  Landlord's interest hereunder;

                      (d)  consent to any subletting of the Premises or
  assignment of this Lease by Tenant, whether pursuant to provisions hereof
  concerning subletting and assignment or otherwise; or

                      (e)  any other action by Landlord or Landlord's agents
  intended to mitigate the adverse effects from any breach of this Lease by
  Tenant.

                 (3)  DAMAGES.  In the event this Lease is terminated pursuant
  to subparagraph 18.2(2) above, Landlord shall be entitled to damages in the
  following sums:
                      (a)  the worth at the time of award of the unpaid rent
  which had been earned at the time of termination; plus

                      (b)  the worth at the time of award of the amount by
  which the unpaid rent which would have been earned after termination until
  the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves
  could have been reasonably avoided; plus

                      (c)  the worth at the time of award of the amount by
  which the unpaid rent for the balance of the term after the time of award
  exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could be reasonably
  avoided; and

                      (d)  any other amounts necessary to compensate Landlord
  for all the detriment proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform
  Tenant's obligations under this Lease, or which in the ordinary course of
  things would be likely to result therefrom including, without limitation, the
  following: (i) expenses for cleaning, repairing or restoring the Premises;
  (ii) expenses for altering, remodeling or otherwise improving the Premises
  for the purposes of reletting; (iii) costs of carrying the Premises such as
  taxes and insurance premiums thereon, utilities and security precautions;
  (iv) expenses in retaking possession of the Premises; (v) attorneys' fees and
  court costs; and (vi) any unamortized real estate brokerage commission paid
  in connection with this Lease.

                                      31
<PAGE>   38

                      (e)  The "worth at the time of award" of the amounts
  referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph is computed by
  allowing interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum.  The "worth at
  the time of award" of the amount referred to in subparagraph (c) of this
  paragraph is computed by discounting such amount at the discount rate of the
  Federal Reserve Board of San Francisco at the time of award plus one percent
  (1%).  The term "rent" as used in this paragraph shall include all sums
  required to be paid by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to the terms of this
  Lease.

       19.  ADVERTISEMENTS AND SIGNS.  Tenant shall not place or permit to be
  placed any sign, display, advertisement, or decoration ("sign") on the
  exterior of the Building, or elsewhere in the Project or on the Premises,
  without the prior written consent of Landlord as to the color, size, style,
  character, content, and location of each such sign.  Upon termination of this
  Lease, Tenant shall remove any sign which it has placed in the Project or on
  the Premises or the Building, and shall repair any damage caused by the
  installation or removal of such sign.

       20.  ENTRY BY LANDLORD.  Landlord and its agents shall be entitled to
  enter into and upon the Premises at all reasonable times, upon reasonable
  notice (except in the case of an emergency, in which event no notice shall be
  required), for the following purposes: (i) to perform Landlord's maintenance
  and repair responsibilities; (ii) to post notices of non-responsibility for
  alterations, additions, or repairs; or (iii) to place upon the Premises any
  ordinary "for sale" signs and to show the Premises to prospective purchasers
  or lenders; and, during the ninety (90) day period prior to the expiration of
  this Lease, or upon any Event of Default, to place upon the Premises any
  usual or ordinary "for lease" signs and exhibit the Premises to prospective
  tenants at reasonable hours.

       Landlord's rights of entry as set forth in this Paragraph 20 shall be
  subject to the reasonable security regulations of Tenant, and to the
  requirement that Landlord use reasonable efforts to minimize interference
  with Tenant's business activities on the Premises.

       21.  Subordination and Attornment.
            ----------------------------
            Notwithstanding anything contained in this Lease, and except with
  respect to any existing deeds of trust or other liens encumbering the Project
  or any portion thereof as of the Commencement Date (which the parties
  acknowledge are prior to this Lease, subject to such rights as Tenant may
  receive in the event a non-disturbance agreement is obtained from the
  beneficiary of such deed of trust or other lienholder

                                      32
<PAGE>   39

  concurrently with the execution of this Lease), this Lease shall not be
  subject to or subordinate to any ground or underlying lease or to any lien,
  mortgage, deed of trust, or security interest now or hereafter affecting the
  Premises, nor shall Tenant be required to execute any documents subordinating
  this Lease, unless the ground lessor, lender, or other holder of the interest
  to which this Lease shall be subordinated agrees to execute a recognition and
  non-disturbance agreement in substantially the form set forth on EXHIBIT "E".

       22.  ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.  Tenant shall
  within seven (7) days following request by Landlord:  (a) execute and deliver
  to Landlord any documents, including estoppel certificates, in the form
  presented to Tenant by Landlord (1) certifying that this Lease has not been
  modified and is in full force and effect or, if modified, stating the nature
  of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in
  full force and effect, (2) stating the date to which the rent and other
  charges are paid in advance, if at all, (3) acknowledging that there are not,
  to Tenant's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Landlord
  hereunder, or if there are uncured defaults on the part of Landlord, stating
  the nature of such uncured defaults, and (4) evidencing the status of this
  Lease as may be required either by a lender making a loan to Landlord to be
  secured by a deed of trust or mortgage encumbering the premises or a
  purchaser of the premises from Landlord; and (b) deliver to Landlord the best
  available current (and public, if the stock of Tenant is publicly traded over
  a United States nationally recognized stock exchange) financial statements of
  Tenant with an opinion of a certified public accountant, if available,
  including a balance sheet and profit and loss statement for the then current
  fiscal year, and the two (2) immediately prior fiscal years (if available),
  all prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
  consistently applied.  Landlord shall only be entitled to request such
  financial statements in connection with an intended disposition or
  refinancing of the Building.

  Landlord shall within seven (7) days following request by Tenant, provided
  such request is made only in connection with a proposed assignment or
  sublease of Tenant's interest in this Lease pursuant to Paragraph 17 above:
  (a) execute and deliver to Tenant an estoppel certificate in the form
  presented to Landlord by Tenant (1) certifying that this Lease has not been
  modified and is in full force and effect or, if modified, stating the nature
  of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in
  full force and effect, (2) stating the date to which the rent and other
  charges are paid in advance, if at all, and (3) acknowledging that there are
  not, to Landlord's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Tenant
  hereunder, or if there are uncured defaults on the part of Tenant, stating
  the nature of such uncured defaults.

                                      33
<PAGE>   40

       23.  NOTICES.  Any notice, approval, request, demand, or consent
  (collectively "notice") required or desired to be given under this Lease
  shall be in writing and shall be personally served or delivered by commercial
  courier (with signed receipt) or United States mail, registered or certified,
  postage prepaid, and addressed to the party to be served at the last address
  given by that party to the other party under the provisions of this
  paragraph.  At the date of execution of this Lease, the addresses of Landlord
  and Tenant are as set forth above in the preamble to this Lease.  Either
  party may change its address by notice to the other party.  Any notice
  delivered by United States mail pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to
  have been delivered five (5) days after the posted date of mailing.

       24.  WAIVER.  The waiver by either party of any breach of any term,
  covenant, or condition herein contained shall not be deemed to be a waiver of
  such term, covenant or condition or any subsequent breach of the same or any
  other term, covenant or condition herein contained.  The subsequent
  acceptance of rent hereunder by Landlord shall not be deemed to be a waiver
  of any preceding breach by Tenant of any term, covenant or condition of this
  Lease, other than the failure of Tenant to pay the particular rental so
  accepted, regardless of Landlord's knowledge of such preceding breach at the
  time of acceptance of such rent.  No term, covenant or condition shall be
  deemed to have been waived by either party unless such waiver is in writing
  and signed by the party making such waiver.

       25.  ATTORNEY'S FEES.  If any action proceeding at law or in equity, or
  an arbitration proceeding (collectively an "action"), shall be brought to
  recover any rent under this Lease, or for or on account of any breach of or
  to enforce or interpret any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this
  Lease, or for the recovery of possession of the Premises, the prevailing
  party shall be entitled to recover from the other party as a part of such
  action, or in a separate action brought for that purpose, its reasonable
  attorney's fees and costs and expenses (including expert witness fees)
  incurred in connection with the prosecution or defense of such action.
  "Prevailing party" within the meaning of this paragraph shall include,
  without limitation, a party who brings an action against the other after the
  other is in breach or default, if such action is dismissed upon the other's
  payment of the sums allegedly due or upon the other's performance of the
  covenants allegedly breached, or if the party commencing such action or
  proceeding obtains substantially the relief sought by it in such action,
  whether or not such action proceeds to a final judgment or determination.

       26.  SURRENDER.  Tenant shall, upon expiration or sooner termination of
  this Lease, surrender the Premises to Landlord with all Additional
  Improvements removed and all damage occasioned by such removal repaired, and
  otherwise in good and clean

                                      34
<PAGE>   41

  broom swept condition (reasonable wear and tear and damage due to causes
  beyond the reasonable control of Tenant excepted) with the HVAC equipment
  serving the Premises in operating order and in good repair.  Tenant, on or
  before the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease, shall remove all
  of its personal property and trade fixtures from the Premises. If the
  Premises are not so surrendered at the expiration or sooner termination of
  this Lease, Tenant shall indemnify Landlord against loss or liability
  resulting from delay by Tenant in so surrendering the Premises, including
  without limitation, any claims made by any succeeding tenant founded on such
  delay, and losses to Landlord due to lost opportunities to lease to
  succeeding tenants.

       27.  HOLDING OVER.  This Lease shall terminate without further notice at
  the expiration of the Lease term.  Any holding over by Tenant after
  expiration shall not constitute a renewal or extension of the Lease term or
  give Tenant any rights in or to the Premises unless otherwise expressly
  provided in this Lease.  Any holding over after expiration of the Lease term
  with the express written consent of Landlord shall be construed to be a
  tenancy from month to month, at one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
  monthly Base Rent for the last month of the Lease term, and shall otherwise
  be on the terms and conditions herein specified insofar as applicable, unless
  otherwise mutually agreed in writing by the parties.

       28.  TRANSFER OF PREMISES BY LANDLORD.  The term "Landlord" as used in
  this Lease, so far as the covenants or obligations on the part of Landlord
  are concerned, shall be limited to mean and include only the owner at the
  time in question of the fee title to the Premises.  In the event of any
  transfer of such fee title, the Landlord herein named (and in case of any
  subsequent transfer or conveyance, the then grantor) shall after the date of
  such transfer or conveyance be automatically freed and relieved of all
  liability with respect to performance of any covenants or obligations on the
  part of Landlord contained in this Lease thereafter to be performed;
  provided, that any funds in the hands of Landlord or the then grantor at the
  time of such transfer in which Tenant has an interest, shall be turned over
  to the grantee.  The covenants and obligations contained in this Lease on the
  part of Landlord shall, subject to the foregoing, be binding upon each
  Landlord hereunder only during his or its respective period of ownership.

       29.  Option(s) to Extend Term.
            ------------------------
            29.1 EXERCISE OF OPTION.  Subject to the provisions of this
  Paragraph 29, Tenant shall have the right to extend the term of this Lease
  for three (3) additional periods of five (5) years each, unless the term is
  sooner terminated as provided in this Lease.  Unless otherwise expressly
  agreed in writing by the parties hereto, the term of

                                      35
<PAGE>   42

  this Lease shall in no event extend beyond March 31, 2015.  Tenant shall
  exercise each of such rights, if at all, only by giving Landlord written
  notice of exercise of such right on or before nine (9) months prior to the
  then scheduled expiration date of the Lease term, and only if Tenant is not
  in default under this Lease when Tenant exercises such right (provided,
  Tenant has received notice of such default and has not cured said default
  within the time permitted for such cure).  If Tenant fails to exercise any
  such rights to extend in accordance with this Paragraph 29, such right shall
  terminate.  The second right to extend may be exercised only if the first
  right to extend has previously been properly exercised, and the third right
  to extend may be exercised only if the second right to extend has previously
  been properly exercised.  If Tenant exercises any such rights in accordance
  with this Paragraph 29, the term of this Lease shall be extended for one
  period of five (5) years subject to the agreements, covenants, conditions,
  and provisions set forth in this Lease, except for the amount of Base Rent
  payable by Tenant, which shall be determined as set forth in Paragraph 29.2.

            29.2 RENT DURING EXTENDED TERM.  The monthly Base Rent during each
  such extended term of this Lease shall initially be equal to the fair market
  rent of the Premises as of the commencement date of such extended term.  Such
  fair market rent shall take into account the rent adjustment mechanism to be
  employed during such extended term.

                 The parties shall have thirty (30) days after Landlord
  receives notice of Tenant's exercise of its right to extend the term in which
  to agree on minimum monthly Base Rent during the extended term.  If the
  parties agree on the minimum monthly Base Rent for the extended term during
  such thirty (30) day period, they shall immediately execute an amendment to
  this Lease stating the minimum monthly Base Rent for such extended term.

                 If the parties are unable to agree on the minimum monthly Base
  Rent for the extended term within such thirty (30) day period, then within
  said thirty (30) days each party, at its cost and by giving notice to the
  other party, shall appoint an appraiser with at least five (5) years' full
  time commercial appraisal or brokerage experience in the Sunnyvale area to
  appraise and set the minimum monthly Base Rent for the extended term.  Said
  appraisers shall be instructed to determine the fair market rent for the
  Premises within thirty (30) days after their appointment, and to base their
  determination on the rent which will be applicable as of the commencement of
  the applicable extended term for comparable space in comparable buildings in
  comparable geographic areas leased on terms comparable to this Lease, taking
  into account the rent adjustment mechanism to be employed during such
  extended term.  Such rent determination shall not take into account
  improvements to

                                      36
<PAGE>   43
  the Premises made by Tenant or on Tenant's behalf at Tenant's sole
  expense, or any Additional Improvements.  If the higher appraisal of rent is
  not more than one hundred five percent (105%) of the lower appraisal of rent,
  the average of their appraised values shall be adopted by the parties.  If
  the higher appraisal is greater than one hundred five percent (105%) of the
  lower, then the two appraisers shall within five (5) days of the initial
  appraisal determinations appoint a third appraiser who shall make his
  determination within thirty (30) days of his appointment, and the two closest
  in dollar terms of the three offered rent determinations shall be averaged
  and adopted by the parties as the monthly Base Rent during the upcoming
  extended term. In no event shall the Base Rent determined by the appraisers
  be less than the then existing monthly Base Rent.  In the event the Base Rent
  so determined is higher than Tenant's highest previously negotiated offer
  Tenant may elect, by written notice to Landlord within three (3) days after
  receipt of the appraisers' determination, to terminate this Lease effective
  as of the date this Lease would have expired but for Tenant's earlier
  exercise of said option to extend the term, in which event Tenant's earlier
  exercise of said option shall be deemed rescinded.  Tenant shall pay all
  costs of the appraisers in the event Tenant so elects to rescind its exercise
  and terminates this Lease.

            29.3 RENTAL ADJUSTMENTS DURING EXTENDED TERM.  The Base Rent during
  the first, or if it is the case, the second or third extended term,
  determined pursuant to Paragraph 29.2 of this Lease shall be adjusted
  annually throughout such term to reflect any increase in the cost of living
  during the extended term in the manner specified in Paragraph 3.2 with
  respect to the initial term.  For the purposes of this paragraph, all other
  definitions set forth in Paragraph 3.2 of this Lease shall apply, except that
  the term "base" shall mean the last published Index in effect on the first
  day of the extended term in question.

       30.  PARKING.  Tenant shall have the nonexclusive use of Tenant's Share
  of the parking spaces in the Outside Areas as designated from time to time by
  Landlord.  Tenant shall not at any time park or permit the parking of
  Tenant's trucks or other vehicles, or trucks or other vehicles of others,
  adjacent or loading areas so as to interfere in any way with the use of such
  areas, nor shall Tenant at any time park or permit the parking of Tenant's
  vehicles or trucks, or the vehicles or trucks of Tenant's suppliers or
  others, in any portion of the Outside Areas not designated by Landlord for
  such use by Tenant.  Tenant shall not park or permit to be parked any
  inoperative vehicles or equipment on any portion of the Outside Areas.

       31.  REASONABLE CONSENT.  Whenever any party's approval or consent is
  required by this Lease, such consent or approval shall not be unreasonably
  withheld or delayed.

                                      37
<PAGE>   44

       32.  Cure Period.
            -----------
            32.1 CURE BY LANDLORD.  Landlord shall not be deemed to be in
  default in the performance of any obligation required to be performed by it
  hereunder unless and until it has failed to perform such obligation within
  the period of time specifically provided herein, or if no period of time has
  been provided, then within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice
  by Tenant to Landlord specifying wherein Landlord has failed to perform such
  obligation; provided, however, that if the nature of Landlord's obligation is
  such that more than thirty (30) days are reasonably required for its
  performance, then Landlord shall not be deemed to be in default if it shall
  commence such performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter
  diligently prosecute the same to completion.  It is understood that, for
  purposes of Paragraphs 9.1, 13 and 10.1, the term "omissions", as used
  therein, shall mean only omissions by Landlord which if not cured with the
  time period permitted in this Paragraph 32 would result in a default of
  Landlord hereunder.

            32.2 CURE BY TENANT.  In the event Landlord is deemed in default
  with respect to its obligation to repair and maintain the roof of the
  Building as provided elsewhere in this Lease, Tenant shall be entitled, after
  written notice to such effect to Landlord, to make such repairs and shall
  have the right to demand reimbursement by Landlord of the cost thereof, with
  interest thereon at the rate of ten percent (10%) or the highest rate allowed
  by law, whichever is less, from the date of the expenditure until repaid.  In
  addition, in the event a condition exists with respect to any portion of the
  Premises which Landlord is required to repair under the Lease, and such
  condition is the direct and immediate cause of an emergency situation which
  presents a clear and present threat to the physical safety of persons on or
  about the Premises or of property of Tenant or its agents, employees, or
  contractors located on or about the Premises, then subject to the following,
  Tenant shall be entitled to make such repairs as are reasonably necessary to
  reduce such threat to a reasonably acceptable level.  As soon as Tenant
  becomes aware of any such condition, it shall make every reasonable effort to
  contact Landlord by telephone or in person and inform Landlord of the
  condition; if upon so informing Landlord of the condition, Landlord elects to
  correct the condition as soon as Tenant would otherwise be able to correct
  the condition, then Tenant shall have no right to correct the condition and
  Landlord shall correct the same.  If Tenant is unable to contact Landlord
  after exhausting reasonable efforts to do so, or does in fact contact
  Landlord but Landlord does not elect to correct the condition as quickly as
  Tenant is able to correct the condition, then Tenant shall be entitled to
  make such repairs and shall have the right to demand reimbursement by
  Landlord of the cost thereof, with interest thereon at the rate of ten
  percent (10%) or 

                                      38
<PAGE>   45

  the highest rate allowed by law, whichever is less, from the date of the
  expenditure until repaid.

       33.  MORTGAGEE PROTECTION.  In the event of any default on the part of
  Landlord, Tenant will give notice by registered or certified mail to any
  beneficiary of a deed or trust or mortgagee of a mortgage, encumbering the
  Premises whose address shall have been furnished to Tenant, and before
  exercising any remedy of Tenant to terminate this Lease, shall allow such
  beneficiary or mortgagee a reasonable opportunity to cure the default,
  including time to obtain possession of the Premises by power or sale or
  judicial foreclosure, if such should prove necessary to effect a cure.
                                   
       34.  General Provisions.
            ------------------
            34.1 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This instrument including the Exhibits
  attached hereto contains all of the agreements and conditions made between
  the parties hereto and may not be modified orally or in any manner other than
  by an agreement in writing signed by all of the parties hereto or their
  respective successors in interest.  Any executed copy of this Lease shall be
  deemed an original for all purposes.

            34.2 TIME.  Time is of the essence with respect to the performance
  of each and every provision of this Lease in which time of performance is a
  factor.  All references to days contained in this Lease shall be deemed to
  mean calendar days, unless otherwise specifically stated.

            34.3 CAPTIONS.  The captions and headings of the numbered
  paragraphs of this Lease are inserted solely for the convenience of the
  parties hereto, and are not a part of this Lease and shall have no effect
  upon the construction or interpretation of any part hereof.

            34.4 CALIFORNIA LAW.  This Lease shall be construed and interpreted
  in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  The language in all
  parts of this Lease shall in all cases be construed as a whole according to
  its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either Landlord or Tenant,
  and without regard to which party prepared this Lease.

            34.5 PARTIAL INVALIDITY.  If any provision of this Lease is held by
  a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
  remainder of the provisions hereof shall nonetheless continue in full force
  and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated thereby.
                                      
                                      39
<PAGE>   46


            34.6  NO WARRANTIES.  Any agreements, warranties or representations
  not expressly contained herein shall not bind either Landlord or Tenant, and
  Landlord and Tenant expressly waive all claims for damages by reason of any
  statement, representation, warranty, promise or agreement, if any, not
  expressly contained in this Lease.

            34.7  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.  The covenants and conditions herein
  contained, subject to the provisions as to assignment, shall inure to the
  benefit of and bind the heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and any
  other person or entity succeeding lawfully, and pursuant to the provisions of
  this Lease, to the rights or obligations of the respective parties hereto.
                                       
            34.8  RULES AND REGULATIONS.  Landlord may from time to time
  promulgate reasonable rules and regulations for the use, safety, care and
  cleanliness of the Premises and the Project.  Such rules and regulations
  shall be binding upon Tenant upon delivery of a copy thereof to Tenant, and
  Tenant shall abide by all such rules and regulations.  If there is a conflict
  between such rules and regulations and any of the provisions of this Lease,
  the provisions of this Lease shall prevail.

            34.9  AUTHORITY.  The individuals signing this Lease hereby
  represent and warrant that they have all necessary power and authority to
  execute and deliver this Lease on behalf of Landlord and Tenant,
  respectively.

            34.10 MEMORANDUM OF LEASE.  This Lease shall not be recorded.
  Concurrently with execution of this Lease, the parties shall execute and
  acknowledge a short form memorandum of this Lease in the form attached hereto
  as EXHIBIT "F".  Simultaneously with execution of such memorandum, Tenant
  shall execute and deliver to Landlord for recordation upon the expiration or
  sooner termination of this Lease, a quitclaim deed to the Premises, in
  recordable form, designating Landlord as transferee.  Any recordation by
  Landlord of such quitclaim deed prior to expiration or sooner termination of
  this Lease shall be deemed a default by Landlord hereunder.  In the event
  Landlord later transfers its interest in the Premises prior to expiration or
  sooner termination of this Lease, such quitclaim deed shall be relinquished
  to Tenant and Tenant shall simultaneously execute and deliver to Landlord a
  new quitclaim deed designating Landlord's successor in interest as the
  transferee, which quitclaim deed shall again only be recorded upon expiration
  or sooner termination of this Lease.

            34.11 REASONABLE EXPENDITURES.  An expenditure by a party, for
  which such party shall demand reimbursement from the other party, shall be
  limited to the fair market value of the goods and services involved, shall be
  reasonably incurred, and

                            40
<PAGE>   47
  shall be substantiated by documentary evidence available for inspection and
  review by the other party or its representative during normal business hours.

            34.12 AMENDMENTS TO ACCOMMODATE LENDERS.  Tenant agrees to
  execute any amendments required by a lender to enable Landlord to obtain
  replacement permanent financing so long as Tenant's rights and obligations
  hereunder are not materially adversely affected and provided such amendments
  are of the type normally required by such lender for similar loans.  Tenant
  shall not have any obligations under any such agreements unless and until
  Tenant signs the same.

            34.13 MERGER.  The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease,
  or a mutual cancellation thereof, shall not work an automatic merger, but
  shall, at the sole option of Landlord, either terminate all or any existing
  subleases or subtenancies, or operate as an assignment to Landlord of any or
  all of such subleases or subtenancies.

            34.14 FORCE MAJEURE.  Any prevention of or delay in the
  performance by a party hereto of its obligations under this Lease caused by
  inclement weather, labor disputes (including strikes and lockouts), inability
  to obtain materials or reasonable substitutes therefor, governmental
  restrictions, regulations, controls, action or inaction, civil commotion,
  fire or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the party obligated to
  perform (except financial inability), shall excuse the performance by such
  party of its obligations hereunder (except the obligation of Tenant to pay
  rent and other sums hereunder) for a period of one day for each such day of
  delay.

            34.15 EXHIBITS. The following exhibits are hereby made a part
  of this Lease.


       Exhibit "A" -- Premises
       Exhibit "B" -- Property Description
       Exhibit "C" -- Plans and Specifications for Tenant Improvements
       Exhibit "D" -- Plans and Specifications for Additional Improvements
       Exhibit "E" -- Nondisturbance Agreement
       Exhibit "F" -- Memorandum of Lease

                                      41
                                      
<PAGE>   48

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Lease on the
  dates set forth below.


            LANDLORD:                             TENANT:

  FERRARI BROTHERS,                       ANALOG DEVICES, INC., 
  a California general partnership        a Massachusetts corporation


  By: /s/ illegible                       By: /s/ illegible
      --------------------------              -----------------------

     Its General Partners                 Its Vice Pres., Finance
         -----------------------              -----------------------

  Dated:  June 16-1996                    Dated:  June 7, 1995
         -----------------------                 --------------------




                                      42
<PAGE>   49
                                  EXHIBIT "A"

                           (SCHEMATIC OF FLOOR PLAN)

<PAGE>   50
Legal Description

All that certain real property situate in the city of Sunnyvale, County of
Santa Clara, State of California, described as follows:

That portion of Lots 24 and 25, W.E. Crossman's Subdivision No. 3, as shown on
a Map recorded in Book K of Maps, page 95, Records of Santa Clara County,
California, being more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the Southeasterly line of Lot 25, as said Lot is shown
on the Map of said Tract, said point being the Southeasterly corner of that
certain tract of land described in the Deed to the city and County of San
Francisco, recorded in Book 2155, Page 377 of Official Records;

thence along the Southeasterly line of said Lot 25, and the Southeasterly line
of Lot 24, as shown upon said Map, S 15 degrees 37 minutes 51 seconds W. 367.21
feet, more or less to the Northeasterly corner of that certain tract of land 
conveyed to the State of California by Deed recorded in Book 4253, Page 92 of 
Official Records:

thence along the line of the land so conveyed to the State of California N.
70 degrees 09 minutes 03 seconds W. 263.24 feet;

thence along a tangent curve t the right with a radius of 358.00 feet, through
an angle of 85 degrees 36 minutes 48 seconds an arc length of 534.94 feet to 
the property line common to the lands now or formerly of John Kulm, et ux, and 
of City and County of San Francisco, a municipal corporation; said point being 
distant thereon S. 73 degrees 35 minutes 22 seconds E. 133.01 feet from the 
center line of Fairoaks Avenue, as said Avenue is shown upon said Map herein 
referred to:

thence Southeasterly along the Southwesterly line of the land of the City and
County of San Francisco, 593.47 feet, more or less to the point of beginning.


                                 Exhibit "B"
<PAGE>   51
                           PERFORMANCE SEMICONDUCTOR

                              TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                     610 E. Weddell Dr. by 1995 definition

Description:

Office Area Construction (22)

Lobby

Conference Rooms (2)

Restroom/Shower Facility

Support Area (maint.)

Light Manufacturing (Rooms 3) Area

Exterior Storage Rooms (2)

Cafeteria (1242)

Corridor System (1hr)

HVAC Units (6) #1, #2, #3, #4, #8

Ceiling Tile System

Fire Sprinklers Above/Below Ceiling

Floor System Carpet/Tile

Electrical Sub-Panels/Fit-Up

Lighting

Painting

Exhaust Fans

Hot Water Heater



                                  Exhibit "C"                    Plan A 610-TI's
<PAGE>   52
                           PERFORMANCE SEMICONDUCTOR

                  WAFER MANUFACTURING ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
                     610 E. Weddell Dr. by 1995 definition

Description:

Clean Room Tunnels 1 (15), 2 (11), 3 (11), 4 (10), 5 (12)

Air Handlers/Duct furnace/Cooling coils: #1, #2, #3, #4

Air Showers (3)

Fir Sprinklers Manufacturing and Exhaust Ducting

Exhaust Scrubber #1 and #2/Duct Work

Alarm/Detection System

Emergency Generator System

Vacuum System A/B

Floor System (Mipolam)

Electrical Fit-Up Manufacturing Support Equipment

Lighting

Process Piping Gas (ss) (cu)

Process Piping D.I. (PVDF), AWN Drain Lines (PVC, CPVC)

Process Piping Trench System
External Support Equipment and Tank Farm

Process Chilled Water System, Mixing Manifold, Piping Extension, Electrical
Panel

Acid and HF Waste Treatment Equipment/System/Vault

Tunnel #3 Wall System, Temperature/Humidity Control



                               Exhibit "D"              FAC-AI
<PAGE>   53
RECORDING REQUESTED BY, AND
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

Lindell Van Dyke, Esq.
1265 Montecito Avenue
Mountain View, CA  94043

                           NON-DISTURBANCE AGREEMENT
                   610 Weddell Drive -- Fabrication Facility

THIS NON-DISTURBANCE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of
the 16th day of June, 1995, by and among Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts
corporation ("Tenant"), FERRARI BROTHERS, a California general partnership
("Landlord"), and COAST FEDERAL BANK, formerly known as Coast Savings and Loan
Association, ("Lender"), based on the follows:

A.  Landlord and Tenant have executed a lease)the "Lease") dated as of June
16, 1995 covering certain premises therein described (the "Premises")
consisting of approximately 27,379 square feet of floor space in an
approximately 63,500 square foot building located on that certain parcel of
real estate commonly known as 610,620, and 630 Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale,
California.  A legal description of said parcel is attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference as Exhibit "A" (said parcel f real estate
and the Premises are sometimes collectively referred to herein as the
"Property");

B.  Landlord has executed a First Deed of Trust (the "Deed of Trust") recorded
on May 22, 1985 as Instrument No. 8417024 Book J353, Page 195 et seq. of the
Official Records of Santa Clara County, California in favor of Lender, payable
upon the terms and conditions described therein;

C.  The parties desire to acknowledge that the loan secured by the Deed of
Trust shall unconditionally be and remain at all times a lien or charge upon
the Property, prior and superior to the Lease and to the leasehold estate
created thereby; and

D.  The parties hereto desire to assure Tenant's possession and control of the
Property under this Lease upon the terms and conditions therein contained.

NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises
herein and other god and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, the parties agree as
follows:

                                   AGREEMENT

1.  The Lease is and shall be subject and subordinate to the Deed of Trust, and
to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions
thereof, and to all future advances made thereunder.

Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                       1
                                  EXHIBIT "E"
<PAGE>   54
2.  Should Lender become the owner of the Property, or should the Property be
sold by reason of foreclosure, or other proceedings brought to enforce the Deed
of Trust which encumbers the Property, or should the Property be transferred by
deed in lieu of foreclosure, or should any portion of the Property be sold
under a trustee's sale, the Lease shall continue in full force and effect as a
direct lease between the then owner of the Property covered by the Deed of
Trust and Tenant, upon, and subject to, all of the terms, covenants and 
conditions of the Lease for the balance of the term thereof remaining, 
including any extension therein provided.  Tenant does hereby agree to attorn
to Lender or to any such owner as its landlord, and Lender hereby agrees that
it will accept such attornment.

3.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Lender shall not be
(a) liable for any previously accrued default of any landlord under the Lease
(including Landlord) as of the date Lender forecloses or otherwise takes title
to the Property; (b) subject to any offsets or defenses which have accrued
prior to the date of foreclosure, unless Tenant shall have delivered to lender
written notice of the default which gave rise to such offset or defense and
permitted Lender the same right to cure such default as is permitted Landlord
under the Lease; (c) bound by any rent or other sums that Tenant may have paid
under the Lease more than one month in advance; (d) bound by any amendment or
modification of the Lease hereafter made without Lender's prior written
consent; (e) responsible for the return of any security deposit delivered to
Landlord under the Lease and not subsequently received by Lender.

4.  If Lender sends written notice to Tenant to direct its rent payments under
the Lease to Lender instead of Landlord, then Tenant agrees to follow the
instructions set forth in such written instructions and deliver rent payments
to Lender; however, Landlord and Lender agree that Tenant shall be credited
under the Lease for any rent payments sent to lender pursuant to such written
notice.

5.  All notices which may or are required to be sent under this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be sent by first class certified U.S. mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, and sent to the party at the address
appearing below its signature hereof or such other address as any party shall
hereafter inform the other party by written notice given as set forth above.
All notices delivered as set forth above shall be deemed effective five (5)
days after the posted date of deposit in the U.S. mail.

6.  The Deed of Trust shall not cover or encumber and shall not be construed as
subjecting in any manner to the lien thereof any of Tenant's trade fixtures,
furniture, equipment or other personal property at any time placed or installed
in the Premises, or the Additional Improvements (as defined in the Lease).

7.  Landlord and Tenant each acknowledges that the other is not in default or
breach of any of its obligations under the Lease as of the date hereof.

Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                        2
<PAGE>   55
8.  this Non-Disturbance Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the parties hereto, their successors in interest, heirs and assigns and
any subsequent owner of the Property secured by the Deed of Trust.

9.  Should any action or proceeding be commenced to enforce any of the
provisions of this Non-Disturbance Agreement or in connection with its meaning,
the prevailing party in such action shall be awarded, in addition to any other
relief it may obtain, its reasonable costs and expenses and reasonable
attorneys' fees.

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Non-Disturbance
Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

LENDER:

COAST FEDERAL BANK,
a
 ----------------------

By:
   ------------------------
Name:
     ----------------------
Title:
      ---------------------


- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------
(address)

TENANT:

Analog Devices Inc.,
a Massachusetts corporations

By:
   ------------------------
Its:
    -----------------------


- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------
(address)

Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                          3
<PAGE>   56
LANDLORD:

FERRARI BROTHERS,
a California general partnership


By:
   ------------------------------
    Ray Ferrari, general partner

1265 Montecito Ave., Suite 200
Mountain View, CA  94043
Attn: Ray Ferrari





Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                        4
<PAGE>   57
                          (Acknowledgement of Lender)

STATE OF CALIFORNIA      )
                                  )SS.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES    )

   On June 16, 1995 before me, Lynda C. Thomas, a Notary Public in and for said
County and State, personally appeared Patrick Senske, personally known to me to
be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he executed same in his authorized capacity, or the
entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature:
          -----------------------------




Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                         5
<PAGE>   58
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

Lindell Van Dyke, Esq.
10600 N. DeAnza Blvd., Ste 100
Cupertino, CA 95014


                             MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

This Memorandum of Lease, dated June   , 1995 for reference purposes only, is
made and entered into between FERRARI BROTHERS, a California general
partnership (hereafter called "Landlord"), and Analog Devices, Inc., a
Massachusetts corporation (hereafter called ("Tenant").

Landlord hereby leases to Tenant certain premises consisting of approximately
twenty-seven thousand three hundred seventy-nine (27,379) square feet (the
"Premises") within that certain building (the "Building") located at 610
Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale, California.  A legal description of the parcel of
land on which the Building is situated is attached as Exhibit "A" hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.  Such lease is governed by the provisions of
that certain unrecorded lease between the parties hereto (the "Lease"), dated
June   , 1995, which provisions are incorporated herein by reference as though
written out at length herein.  Terms undefined herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Lease.

The term of the Lease shall be the five (5) year period commencing on June   ,
1995 and ending on March 31, 2000.  Tenant shall have three options to extend
the term for successive additional periods of five (5) years each on the terms
set forth in the Lease.

The purpose of this Memorandum of Lease is to give notice of the existence of
the Lease.  This Memorandum in no way modifies the Lease or any terms thereof.





                                  EXHIBIT "F"
                                     F-1
<PAGE>   59
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Memorandum of Lease
to be executed as of the day and year first above written.



TENANT:

Analog Devices Inc.,
a Massachusetts corporations

By:
   ------------------------
Name:
     ----------------------
Title:
      ---------------------

LANDLORD:

FERRARI BROTHERS,
a California general partnership


By:
   ------------------------
Name:
     ----------------------
Title:
      ---------------------





                                   Exhibit "F"
                                       F-2
<PAGE>   60
(Acknowledgement of Landlord)

STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS      )
                                  )SS.
COUNTY OF NORFOLK           )

   On June 7, 1995 before me, Janet A. Sweeney, a Notary Public in and for said
County and State, personally appeared Joseph E. McDonough, personally known to
me to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he executed same in his authorized capacity, or the
entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature:
          -----------------------------





                                    Exhibit "F"
                                        F-3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
Exhibit 21



                                  SUBSIDIARIES


The following is a list of the Company's subsidiaries:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                            PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                             SECURITIES OWNED BY
                                                                       ORGANIZED              REGISTRANT AS OF
                                                                      UNDER LAW OF            OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                                                      ------------            ----------------
  <S>                                                                <C>                    <C>
  Analog Devices Limited                                             United Kingdom                  100%
  Analog Devices, GmbH                                               Germany                         100%
  Analog Devices, S.A.                                               France                          100%
  Analog Devices, K.K.                                               Japan                           100%
  Analog Devices APS                                                 Denmark                         100%
  Analog Devices Nederland, B.V.                                     The Netherlands                 100%
  Analog Devices International, Inc.                                 Massachusetts                   100%
  Analog Devices Israel, Ltd.                                        Israel                          100%
  Analog Devices A.B.                                                Sweden                          100%
  Analog Devices SRL                                                 Italy                           100%
  Analog Devices, HDLSGESMBH M.B.H.                                  Austria                         100%
  Analog Devices Korea, Ltd.                                         Korea                           100%
  Analog Devices, B.V.                                               The Netherlands                 100%
  Analog Devices Finance N.V.                                        Netherlands Antilles            100%
  Analog Devices Holdings, B.V.                                      The Netherlands                 100%
  Analog Devices Research & Development Ltd.                         Ireland                         100%
  Analog Devices (Philippines), Inc.                                 The Philippines                 100%
  Analog Devices Foreign Sales
    Corporation, B.V.                                                The Netherlands                 100%
  Analog Devices Foundry Services, Inc.                              Delaware                        100%
  Analog Devices Asian Sales, Inc.                                   Delaware                        100%
  Analog Devices Taiwan, Ltd.                                        Taiwan                          100%
  Analog Devices Ireland, Ltd.                                       Ireland                         100%
  Analog Devices Hong Kong, Ltd.                                     Hong Kong                       100%
  Analog Devices Proprietary, Ltd.                                   Australia                       100%
  Analog Devices India Private Limited                               India                           100%
  Analog Devices Gen. Trias, Inc.                                    Philippines                     100%
  Analog Devices International Financial Services Company            Ireland                         100%
  Analog Devices Foreign Sales Corporation.                          Barbados                        100%
  Analyzed Investments, Ltd.                                         Ireland                          54%
  Analog/NCT Supply Ltd.                                             Delaware                         50%
  Analog Devices Realty Holdings, Inc.                               Philippines                      40%
  Analog Supplies Company                                            Japan                            15%
</TABLE>



The financial statements of all wholly owned subsidiaries are included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing elsewhere herein.

                                       56
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
Exhibit 23



               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 Nos. 2-63561, 2-69122, 2-77321, 2-90023, 2-95495, 33-2502, 33-4067,
33-22604, 33-22605, 33-29484, 33-39851, 33-39852, 33-43128, 33-46520, 33-46521,
33-60696, 33-60642, 33-61427 and 33-64849) of Analog Devices, Inc. of our
report dated November 28, 1995, except for the fifth paragraph of Note 4 as to
which the date is December 18, 1995, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and schedule of Analog Devices, Inc. included in this Annual Report
(Form 10-K) for the year ended October 28, 1995.


                                            ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
January 22, 1996

                                       57
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ANALOG DEVICES, INC. FOR THE YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 28,
1995 AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
<CURRENCY> U.S. Dollars
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          OCT-28-1995
<PERIOD-START>                             OCT-30-1994
<PERIOD-END>                               OCT-28-1995
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                          69,303
<SECURITIES>                                    81,810
<RECEIVABLES>                                  185,766
<ALLOWANCES>                                     4,439
<INVENTORY>                                    143,962
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               526,018
<PP&E>                                         856,267
<DEPRECIATION>                                 424,305
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               1,001,648
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          254,388
<BONDS>                                         80,000
<COMMON>                                        19,098
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                     636,868
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 1,001,648
<SALES>                                        941,546
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               941,546
<CGS>                                          464,571
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  464,571
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               319,208
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               4,201
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                159,435
<INCOME-TAX>                                    40,165
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            119,270
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   119,270
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     1.00
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.00
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
