-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BfMZ74dG75jS/rTsKAgVe8cOCrJZcyqtbtgF88mWVoNLoPzmLzRZOy7cYwKUV6xN
 FL4I8KIFRrrPucSQ8VTDXg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950135-97-000278.txt : 19970130
<SEC-HEADER>0000950135-97-000278.hdr.sgml : 19970130
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-97-000278
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19961102
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970129
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ANALOG DEVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000006281
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				042348234
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07819
		FILM NUMBER:		97513757

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6173294700
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
(MARK ONE)
   [X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 1996

                                      OR

   [ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM __________ TO __________

                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-7819

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

      MASSACHUSETTS                                              04-2348234
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

    ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY, NORWOOD, MA                              02062-9106
(Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)

                                 (617) 329-4700
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

                             ----------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (b) OF THE ACT:

COMMON STOCK $.16 2/3 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
      Title of Each Class              Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES  X    NO

         The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates
of the registrant was approximately $3,960,793,548 based on the closing price of
the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape reporting system
on December 31, 1996.

         Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each class of Common
Stock: 159,479,013 shares of $.16 2/3 par value Common Stock as of December 31,
1996.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                10-K PART
                   --------------------                                ---------
<S>                                                                    <C>
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual
    Meeting of Stockholders to be held March 11, 1997................     III
</TABLE>

================================================================================

<PAGE>   2
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's two principal product groups are
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs") and
system-level ICs. The latter group includes general-purpose digital signal
processing ICs (DSPs) and application-specific devices that typically
incorporate analog and mixed-signal circuitry and a DSP core. Analog's third
product group consists of devices manufactured using assembled product
technology.

Nearly all of the Company's products are components, which are typically
incorporated by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in a wide range of
equipment and systems for use in communications, computer, industrial,
instrumentation, military/aerospace, automotive and high-performance consumer
electronics applications. The Company sells its products worldwide;
approximately 42% of fiscal 1996's revenues was derived from customers in North
America, while most of the balance was derived from customers in Western Europe
and the Far East.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed,
acceleration, position and rotation angle, are inherently analog in nature,
consisting of continuously varying information. This information can be detected
and measured using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by
generating continuously varying voltages and currents. The signals from these
sensors are initially processed using analog methods, such as amplification,
filtering and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for input
to a microprocessor, which is used to manipulate, store or display the
information. In many cases the signals are further processed after conversion to
digital form using a technology called "digital signal processing," or DSP. In
addition, digital signals are frequently converted to analog form to provide
signals for analog display, sound, or control functions. These manipulations and
transformations are known collectively as "real-world signal processing."

Significant advances in semiconductor technology over the past 10 to 15 years
have led to substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs
used in signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to
create VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) mixed-signal ICs that contain both
high-performance analog circuitry and large amounts of high-density digital
circuitry. The analog circuitry portion of the IC is used for manipulating
real-world signals while still in analog form and for converting analog signals
into digital form (or vice versa), and the digital portion is used for further
processing analog signals subsequent to their conversion to digital form. The
ICs resulting from these advances are used as components in equipment and
systems to achieve higher performance and more efficient signal processing.

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Analog believes it is one of the world's largest suppliers of SLIC products. The
Company's SLIC products are primarily high-performance, single-function devices.
The majority of the Company's SLIC revenues are attributable to data converters
(analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. SLICs are sold to a
very large customer base for a wide variety of applications, including
applications in the medical, engineering and scientific instruments market,
factory automation market and military/aerospace market.

Building upon its expertise in linear IC technology, the Company has developed
VLSI system-level mixed-signal ICs tailored to specific high-volume applications
in target markets. These products typically provide a high level of
functionality (i.e., many functions on one chip) to satisfy OEMs' requirements
for integrated solutions at a low cost per function. The Company also has
extended its expertise in analog signal processing and data conversion to
develop DSP ICs. The Company's system-level ICs address the emerging demand for
high levels of performance in many communications, computer and other
high-volume applications.


                                       1
<PAGE>   3
PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications. Analog's products can be divided into
three classifications: Standard Linear ICs (SLICs), system-level ICs (which
includes all products previously classified as SPLICs, DSP ICs, and hard disk
drive ICs) and assembled products.

A substantial portion of the Company's products are proprietary, while
equivalents to most of its other products are available from a limited number of
other suppliers. Many of the Company's products tend to be less price sensitive
than other types of ICs, such as DRAM (Dynamic Random Access Memory) ICs,
primarily because there are fewer suppliers and because OEMs, in many cases,
after qualifying one manufacturer's high-performance linear or mixed-signal IC
for a specific application, are reluctant to switch manufacturers due to the
risk of degradation in the performance of their product and/or the effort
required to qualify additional suppliers.

The following table sets forth the approximate percentage of revenue
attributable to each of the Company's three product groups for the past three
fiscal years:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       PRODUCTS                             1996       1995       1994
       ---------------------------------------------------------------
       <S>                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
       SLICs                                 57%        64%        60%
       System-level ICs (including DSPs)     38         28         29
       Assembled Products                     5          8         11
</TABLE>

SLICS

SLIC products have been the foundation of the Company's business for more than
20 years, and Analog believes it is one of the world's largest SLIC suppliers.
The Company's SLICs are primarily high-performance, single-function devices. The
majority of the Company's SLIC revenues are attributable to data converters
(analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other SLIC products
offered by the Company include analog signal-processing devices (such as analog
multipliers), voltage references and comparators. Over the past few years the
Company has been expanding its SLIC product offerings into product areas where
it has traditionally had limited focus, principally interface circuits and power
management ICs. It is also expanding its SLIC product line to include a much
larger number of products designed to operate from single-supply 3 or 5 volt
power sources to better meet the needs of customers designing portable,
battery-operated equipment.

Analog's SLIC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems.
Analog's product portfolio includes several hundred SLICs, any one of which can
have as many as several hundred customers. SLICs typically have long product
life cycles. The Company's SLIC customers include both OEMs and customers who
build equipment for their own use. Historically, most SLICs have been purchased
by OEMs which serve the instrumentation, factory automation and
military/aerospace markets, but they are now also being used for applications in
commercial and consumer communications equipment, personal computers (PCs) and
peripheral equipment used with PCs and computers.

By using standard, high-performance, readily available, off-the-shelf components
in their designs, Analog's customers can reduce the time required to develop and
bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing customized ICs,
SLICs usually provide the most cost-effective solutions for low to medium volume
applications. In addition, combinations of SLICs connected together on a printed
circuit board can provide functionality not currently achievable using a single
IC.

SYSTEM-LEVEL ICS

Analog's system-level ICs include general-purpose DSP ICs and multi-function
devices that feature high levels of functional integration on a single chip.


                                       2
<PAGE>   4
The Company's general-purpose DSP ICs are designed to efficiently execute
specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing digitized
real-time, real-world data. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write
their own algorithms using software tools provided by the Company and software
tools obtained from third-party suppliers. All of these devices share a common
architecture and code compatibility, which allows system designers to address
cost, performance and time-to-market constraints. Analog supports these products
with specialized applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools, which
reduce product development cost and time to market.

Most of Analog's system-level ICs other than its general-purpose DSP ICs are
mixed-signal devices (some of which include a DSP core). The balance are
linear-only devices. These devices are nearly always designed to meet the
requirements of a specific application, and the design process often includes
significant input from one or more potential key customers. Market demand for
these types of devices is driven by the benefits that result from combining a
number of functions on a single circuit, as opposed to a combination of SLICs
and other ICs. These benefits include higher performance, lower cost per
function, smaller size, lower weight, fewer parts and decreased power
consumption. These products allow Analog's customers to design smaller, lighter,
higher performance, more power-efficient and lower cost end products. The
Company believes that these benefits are important to the Company's OEM
customers as they increase their focus on high-performance, small, lightweight
products, many of which are battery powered.

ASSEMBLED PRODUCTS

The Company's assembled products include multi-chip modules ("MCMs"), hybrids
and printed-board modules. A MCM is a device made up of several IC chips
assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides high
interconnect density at low cost. A hybrid consists of several chips and
discrete components mounted and wired together on a substrate, which is then
enclosed in a package. A printed-board module consists of surface-mount
components assembled on a small printed board that is then encapsulated in a
small plastic case.

Revenues from this product group have been declining for several years,
primarily because hybrids have been replaced in many new designs with smaller,
lower-cost monolithic ICs that offer higher levels of performance and
integration at lower cost. 

MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS

The Company's products are sold primarily to OEMs for incorporation into
equipment, instruments and systems sold to end users for a wide variety of
applications, including communications equipment; computers and computer
peripherals; engineering, medical and scientific instruments; factory automation
equipment; military/aerospace equipment; high-end consumer electronics products;
and automotive products. The Company's growth has been aided both by the
expansion of these markets and the increasing use of computer technology in the
equipment and systems sold in these markets.

For fiscal 1996, Analog's 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 28%
of the Company's net sales. The largest single customer represented less than 5%
of net sales. Sales of the Company's products are not highly seasonal.

Listed below are some of the characteristics of each of the Company's major
served markets:

COMMUNICATIONS -- includes data and fax modems, digital cellular telephones and
portable, wireless communications equipment and broadband wired applications.
The need for ever higher speed, coupled with more reliable, more
bandwidth-efficient communications is creating increasing demand for systems
that include both digital and analog signal processing capability. Demand for
signal processing ICs for this market is also being driven by the equipment
manufacturers' need for components that enable them to develop cost-effective
products that feature high performance, small size, low weight and minimal power
consumption.

COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS -- includes high-performance personal
computers, workstations and peripheral devices such as hard disk drives and
scanners. The Company currently supplies a variety of ICs used in this market
for functions such as graphic displays; interfaces between PCs and peripherals
such as modems and printers; power and battery management; and enhanced sound
input and output capability for business and entertainment applications.


                                       3
<PAGE>   5
INSTRUMENTATION -- includes engineering, medical and scientific instruments.
These products are usually designed using the highest performance SLICs
available, where production volumes generally do not warrant custom or
application-specific ICs.

FACTORY AUTOMATION -- includes data acquisition systems, automatic process
control systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test
equipment ("ATE"). These products generally require ICs that offer performance
greater than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have
production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations
of SLICs are therefore usually employed to achieve the necessary functionality,
except in ATE applications where the high level of electronic circuitry required
per tester has created opportunities for the design of system-level ICs for this
application.

MILITARY/AEROSPACE -- includes military, commercial avionics and space markets,
all of which require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and
reliability specifications. Nearly all of the Company's SLICs can be supplied in
versions that meet appropriate military standards. In addition, many products
can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and
other commercial space applications. Most of the Company's products sold into
this market are derived from standard commercial grade ICs, although the Company
sometimes develops products expressly for military/aerospace applications.

CONSUMER ELECTRONICS -- The emergence of high-performance consumer products,
such as compact disc players, digital VCRs, digital audio tape equipment and
digital camcorders, has led to the need for high-performance system-level ICs
with a high level of functionality. Although the Company's revenues from this
market have not been significant, the Company expects to supply ICs for
sophisticated products used by consumers for computing, communications and
entertainment applications, and believes that many of these applications will
involve digital signal processing.

AUTOMOTIVE -- Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices
for a wide range of applications. In response, Analog is developing products
specifically for the automotive market. The Company is supplying a micromachined
IC used as a crash sensor in airbag systems, which serves as an alternative to
an electromechanical sensor. The Company anticipates that other micromachined
devices derived from this product may be suitable for other automotive
applications, such as anti-lock brakes and "smart" suspension systems.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The markets served by Analog are characterized by rapid technological changes
and advances. Accordingly, the Company makes substantial investments in the
design and development of new products and processes, and for significant
improvement of existing products and processes. Analog spent $177.8 million
during fiscal 1996 for the design, development and improvement of new and
existing products and processes, compared to $134.3 million during fiscal 1995
and $106.9 million during fiscal 1994.

In fiscal 1996, approximately half of the Company's R&D expenditures were
devoted to the design and development of system-level ICs, including DSP ICs,
and the development and improvement of processes used for these products. In
support of its research and development activities, the Company employs several
hundred engineers involved in product and process development at several design
centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the world.

As of November 2, 1996, the Company owned 387 U.S. patents and had 220 patent
applications on file with the United States patent office. The Company believes
that while its patents may provide some advantage, its competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the knowledge, ability and experience of
the Company's personnel, new product development, market recognition and ongoing
marketing efforts, customer service and technical support.

SALES CHANNELS

Analog sells its products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 42% of fiscal 1996 revenue was derived from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 1996, the Company had 13 sales
offices in the United States, and its third-party distribution channel consisted
of eight national and regional third-party distributors and several independent
sales representatives with numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.


                                       4
<PAGE>   6
Approximately 31% of the Company's fiscal 1996 revenue was derived from sales to
customers in Europe; 14% to customers in Japan; and 13% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 1996, the Company had direct sales
offices in Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, The Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. The Company also had sales representatives and/or distributors
in approximately 36 countries outside North America, including countries where
the Company also has direct sales offices.

Approximately 41% of Analog's fiscal 1996 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. The Company's distributors typically maintain an inventory
of Analog products. Some of these distributors also sell products competitive
with the Company's products, including those for which the Company is an
alternate source. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements which
provide protection to the distributors for their inventory of Company products
against price reductions and products that are slow-moving or have been
discontinued by the Company. These agreements generally contain a provision for
the return of the products to the Company in the event the relationship with the
distributor is terminated.

Sales to North American distributors are not recognized until the products are
resold by distributors to their customers. Sales made to distributors outside
North America are recognized upon shipment to the distributor, but the Company
provides specific reserves for possible returns and allowances.

The Company's worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars;
and participation in trade shows. The Company publishes and distributes
full-length databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical
handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. The Company also
provides products and application information via CD ROMs and its worldwide web
site on the Internet. The Company also maintains a staff of application
engineers who aid customers in incorporating Analog's products into their
products during their product development cycles.

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the
wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into packages and
electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used
to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals
(including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and plastic used
for plastic packaging.

In addition to using industry-standard bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication
processes, Analog employs a wide variety of Company-developed proprietary
processes specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear
and mixed-signal SLICs and system-level ICs.

Analog's IC products are fabricated both at the Company's production facilities
and by third-party wafer fabricators. Assuming that the Company can continue to
maintain favorable relationships with its third-party wafer fabricators, it
intends to continue using such suppliers for meeting most of its needs for
wafers that can be fabricated using industry-standard digital processes. The
Company intends to rely primarily on its own facilities for fabricating wafers
that require linear and mixed-signal processes. The Company operates wafer
fabrication facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts; Santa Clara, California;
and Limerick, Ireland for production of linear and mixed-signal devices. The
Company also operates assembly and test facilities located in the United States,
Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company uses two principal foundries,
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company ("TSMC") and Chartered Semiconductor
Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM") for the production of digital and VLSI
mixed-signal devices. To provide access to advanced process technology at
competitive costs, the Company has entered into a joint venture agreement
(WaferTech, LLC) with TSMC, Altera, Integrated Silicon Solutions and several
individual investors to build an eight-inch wafer fabrication facility in Camas,
Washington. Analog is an 18% equity partner in the joint venture which is
expected to become operational late in 1998.


                                       5
<PAGE>   7
Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together several
integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in the
Company's hybrids are manufactured by the Company and some are purchased from
outside suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and
systems consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of the
Company's assembled products are assembled and tested within the Company's U.S.
manufacturing facilities, while others are assembled and tested at Company-owned
facilities outside the United States or by subcontractors, principally in the
Far East.

To respond to production capacity shortages which existed during 1995, the
Company significantly expanded its manufacturing capacity during 1996. Major
wafer fabrication expansions have been undertaken in Wilmington, Massachusetts;
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Sunnyvale, California and Limerick, Ireland.

In addition, the Company is completing construction of an additional
manufacturing facility in Cavite, Philippines which will significantly increase
assembly and test capacity. Most of these initiatives are either in production
or nearing completion and are expected to satisfy the anticipated customer
demand.

BACKLOG

Backlog at the end of fiscal year 1996 was approximately $290.7 million; it was
approximately $286.8 million at the end of the fiscal year 1995. The quantities
of the Company's products to be delivered and their delivery schedules are
frequently revised by customers to reflect changes in their needs. As is
customary in the semiconductor industry, the Company allows such orders to be
canceled or deliveries delayed by the customer without significant penalty.
Accordingly, the Company believes that its backlog at any time should not be 
used as a measure of future revenues.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

The Company estimates that approximately 12% of its fiscal 1996 total worldwide
revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government
contractors and subcontractors. Analog's government contract-related business is
predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-priced subcontracts. All
such contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions related to
termination at the election of the United States government.

COMPETITION

Analog competes with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that
are highly competitive. The Company believes it is one of the largest suppliers
of high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components. These
types of products fall into both the SLIC and system-level IC product
categories. Competitors for the Company's linear and mixed-signal products
include Burr-Brown Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Exar Corp., Harris Corp., Linear
Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corp.,
Rockwell International Corp., Sierra Semiconductor Corp., Siliconix Inc.,
Texas Instruments, Inc. and others.

Sales of DSP ICs represent a growing percentage of the Company's total sales.
Analog's competitors in the DSP IC market include Lucent Technologies (formerly
part of AT&T), Integrated Device Technology, Inc., Motorola Semiconductor
Products and Texas Instruments, Inc.

Many other companies offer components that compete with Analog's products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than Analog's. Also, some formerly independent competitors
have been purchased by larger companies (which in some cases may be viewed as a
means by which the acquiring company gains in-house capability). However, to the
Company's knowledge, no manufacturer competes with Analog across all of the
product types offered by the Company in its signal-processing components product
line.

Analog believes that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world
signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including product
price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products,
customer service and technical support. Analog believes its aggressive technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by its
commitment to strong customer service and technical support, will allow the
Company to continue to compete successfully in its chosen markets against both
foreign and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.


                                       6
<PAGE>   8
ENVIRONMENT

Analog's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the
Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

As of November 2, 1996, the Company employed approximately 6,900 persons. The
Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of its
key technical and senior management personnel, and on its ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing products and the development of new products and processes. The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that
relations with its employees are good.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

Analog has direct sales offices in 16 countries outside the United States. For
fiscal 1996, Analog's international sales accounted for approximately 58% of
total sales, the majority of which were made through its direct international
sales offices while the balance, approximately 37% of the total, were made
through distributors. In addition, the Company has manufacturing facilities in
Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company also has arrangements with
subcontractors, principally in the Far East, for wafer fabrication and the
assembly and testing of certain products.


                                       7
<PAGE>   9
ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.
Manufacturing and other operations are carried on in several locations
worldwide. The following tables provide certain information as to the Company's
principal general offices and manufacturing facilities:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    PLANT LOCATION
    --------------
       OWNED:                                        USE                                                 FLOOR SPACE
       ------                                        ---                                                 -----------
<S>                        <C>                                                                         <C>            
Wilmington,                Wafer fabrication, components assembly and testing, engineering             245,200 sq. ft.
Massachusetts              and administrative offices

Wilmington,                Engineering, marketing and administrative offices                           108,000 sq. ft.
Massachusetts

Wilmington,                Components engineering, marketing and administrative offices                 67,200 sq. ft.
Massachusetts

Westwood,                  Components and subsystems assembly and testing, engineering                 100,400 sq. ft.
Massachusetts              and administrative offices

Limerick,                  Wafer fabrication, components assembly and testing, engineering             286,200 sq. ft.
Ireland                    and administrative offices

Greensboro,                Components and board assembly and testing, engineering and                  100,000 sq. ft.
North Carolina             administrative offices

Cavite, Philippines        Components assembly and testing, engineering and administrative             125,000 sq. ft.
                           offices

Manila, Philippines        Components assembly and testing, engineering and administrative              85,000 sq. ft.
                           offices
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     PRINCIPAL                                                                                   LEASE
     ---------                                                                                   -----
     PROPERTIES                         USE                                   FLOOR SPACE     EXPIRATION      RENEWALS
     ----------                         ---                                   -----------     ----------      --------
       LEASED                                                                               (FISCAL YEAR)
       ------                                                                                  
<S>                   <C>                                                    <C>             <C>              <C>        
Norwood,              Corporate headquarters, engineering, components        135,000 sq. ft.      2007        3, five-yr.
Massachusetts         testing, sales and marketing offices                                                    periods

Cambridge,            Wafer fabrication, engineering and administrative       68,000 sq. ft.      2001        2, five-yr.
Massachusetts         offices                                                                                 periods

Santa Clara,          Wafer fabrication, components assembly and              72,800 sq. ft.      2002        3, five-yr.
California            testing, engineering and administrative offices                                         periods

Santa Clara,          Administrative offices and engineering                  43,500 sq. ft.      2002        3, five-yr.
California                                                                                                    periods

Sunnyvale,            Wafer fabrication                                       40,000 sq. ft.      2000        3, five-yr.
California                                                                                                    periods

Taipei,               Components testing, engineering and                     47,700 sq. ft.      1997        3 to 5 yr.
Taiwan                administrative offices                                                                  option to extend
</TABLE>



                                       8
<PAGE>   10
ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES -- (CONTINUED)

In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the previous table, the
Company also leases sales offices and other premises at 28 locations in the
United States and 28 locations overseas under operating lease agreements. These
leases expire at various dates through the year 2010. The Company anticipates no
difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of its manufacturing, office or sales
facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or through month-to-month
occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent facilities. See Note 7 - "Lease
Commitments" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information
concerning the Company's obligations under all operating and capital leases.


ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents was also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. In
addition, in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in
Massachusetts alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of the
Company's patents. Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both
Texas lawsuits and the Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a
royalty-free cross license of certain of the Company's and TI's patents.

On April 25, 1995, the Company filed with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC
enforcement proceeding on the grounds that further action by the ITC was
unnecessary in light of the Company's settlement with TI. On May 8, 1995, an
Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended determination to the ITC to grant
the Company's motion to terminate the ITC proceeding. The investigative office
of the ITC opposed the motion, claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's
settlement with TI, the Company's alleged violation of the ITC's cease and
desist order warranted the imposition of substantial penalties. On September 11,
1996, the ITC adopted the determination of the Administrative Law Judge to
terminate the enforcement proceeding and referred to the Department of Justice
certain allegations that the Company made false representations in reports filed
with the ITC. The Company advised the Department of Justice that it has
consistently and vigorously denied such allegations during the entire course of
the proceedings before the ITC and the Department of Justice informed the
Company that its statement would be considered in connection with any action it
may take on the matter. The Company is aware of no further activity by the
Department of Justice, and is unable to determine whether further activity will
occur regarding the foregoing matter.

In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, trademarks, personal injury, environmental matters and product
liability. Such litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against
the Company by Sextant Avionique, S.A. in France and the United States and
Commissariat A. L'energie Atomique C.E.A. in France, claiming that the Company's
accelerometer infringes certain patents. While there can be no assurance that
the Company will prevail in any of these matters, the Company does not believe
that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. However,
an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated results of operations in the quarter in which these matters are
resolved.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
last quarter of the fiscal year ended November 2, 1996.


                                       9
<PAGE>   11
                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY


The following table sets forth (i) the name and age of each present executive
officer of the Company; (ii) the position(s) presently held by each person
named; and (iii) the principal occupations held by each person named for at
least the past five years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXECUTIVE OFFICER     AGE                POSITION                             BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
    -----------------     ---                --------                             -------------------
<S>                       <C>       <C>                                <C>        
Ray Stata..................62       Chairman of the Board              Chairman of the Board since 1973; Chief
                                                                       Executive Officer from 1973 to November 
                                                                       1996; President from 1971 to November 
                                                                       1991.

Jerald G. Fishman..........51       President, Chief Executive         Chief Executive Officer since November 
                                    Officer and Director               1996; President and Director since 
                                                                       November 1991; Executive Vice President
                                                                       from 1988 to November 1991; Group Vice 
                                                                       President Components from 1982 to 1988.

Ross Brown.................52       Vice President, Human Resources    Vice President, Human Resources since May
                                                                       1993; U.S. Personnel Manager for Digital
                                                                       Equipment Corp. from 1990 to 1993; Senior
                                                                       Group Personnel Manager at Digital from 1986
                                                                       to 1990.

David D. French............40       Vice President and General         Vice President and General Manager, Computer
                                    Manager, Computer Products         Products Division since May 1994; Vice
                                    Division                           President and General Manager of Systems IC
                                                                       Products Division from November 1991 to May 
                                                                       1994; Division General Manager from February 
                                                                       1988 to November 1991.

Russell K. Johnsen.........42       Vice President and General         Vice President and General Manager,
                                    Manager, Communications Division   Communications Division since May 1994; Vice
                                                                       President and General Manager Analog Devices
                                                                       Semiconductor Division from November 1993 to
                                                                       May 1994; General Manager of the Wide Area
                                                                       Networks Division of National Semiconductor
                                                                       Corp. from 1992 to 1993.

Robert R. Marshall.........42       Vice President, Worldwide          Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing since
                                    Manufacturing                      February 1994; Vice President, Manufacturing,
                                                                       Limerick Site, Analog Devices, B.V. -
                                                                       Limerick, Ireland from November 1991 to
                                                                       February 1994; Plant Manager, Analog Devices,
                                                                       B.V. - Limerick, Ireland from January 1991 to
                                                                       November 1991.
</TABLE>


                                       10
<PAGE>   12
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXECUTIVE OFFICER     AGE                POSITION                             BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
    -----------------     ---                --------                             -------------------
<S>                       <C>       <C>                                <C>            
William A. Martin..........37       Treasurer                          Treasurer since March 1993; Assistant
 .                                                                      Treasurer from October 1991 to March 1993;
                                                                       Manager of Treasury Finance from March 1987 
                                                                       to October 1991; Manager of International 
                                                                       Treasury from October 1985 to March 1987.

Robert McAdam..............46       Vice President and General         Vice President and General Manager, Standard
                                    Manager, Standard Linear           Linear Products Division since February 1994;
                                    Products Division                  Vice President and General Manager, Analog
                                                                       Devices, B.V. - Limerick, Ireland from
                                                                       January 1991 to February 1994; Product Line
                                                                       Manager, Analog Devices, B.V. - Limerick,
                                                                       Ireland from October 1988 to January 1991.

Brian P. McAloon...........46       Vice President, Sales              Vice President, Sales since May 1992; Vice
                                                                       President, Sales and Marketing - Europe and
                                                                       Southeast Asia from 1990 to 1992; General
                                                                       Manager, Analog Devices, B.V. - Limerick,
                                                                       Ireland from 1987 to 1990.

Joseph E. McDonough........49       Vice President, Finance and        Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                                    Chief Financial Officer            Officer since November 1991; Vice President
                                                                       since 1988 and Treasurer from 1985 to March 
                                                                       1993; Director of Taxes from 1983 to 1985.

H. Goodloe Suttler.........45       Vice President, Marketing,         Vice President, Marketing Quality and 
                                    Quality and Planning               Planning since October 1993; Vice President 
                                                                       and General Manager, Analog Devices 
                                                                       Semiconductor Division from November 1991 to 
                                                                       October 1993; General Manager of Analog 
                                                                       Devices Semiconductor Division from August 
                                                                       1988 to November 1991.

Franklin Weigold...........57       Vice President and General         Vice President and General Manager,
                                    Manager, Transportation and        Transportation and Industrial Products
                                    Industrial Products Division       Division since March 1992; President and
                                                                       Chief Operating Officer of Unitrode from June
                                                                       1990 to March 1992.
</TABLE>

There is no family relationship among the named officers.


                                       11
<PAGE>   13
                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol ADI. The table below sets forth the high and low prices of the Common
Stock during the two most recent fiscal years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               1996                          1995
                      -----------------------      ------------------------
     PERIOD             HIGH            LOW         HIGH              LOW
     ------             ----            ---         ----              ---
<S>                   <C>             <C>          <C>             <C>     
First Quarter         $  19.38        $ 13.13      $ 12.25         $  10.25
Second Quarter        $  22.63        $ 16.13      $ 14.13         $  10.00
Third Quarter         $  22.38        $ 12.75      $ 19.00         $  12.88
Fourth Quarter        $  22.25        $ 14.63      $ 19.75         $  14.88
</TABLE>

On December 3, 1996, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
four-for-three stock split effected in the form of a 33 1/3% stock dividend
distributed on January 6, 1997 to stockholders of record December 16, 1996. All
stock prices in the table above have been restated to reflect the split.

The Company's $60,000,000 credit agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash
dividend payments declared or made subsequent to November 2, 1996 to an amount
not exceeding $150,000,000 plus 50% of the consolidated net income of the
Company for the period from November 3, 1996 through the end of the Company's
then most recent fiscal quarter. At November 2, 1996 this amount was equal to
$150,000,000. Although prior credit agreements may not have restricted the
payment of dividends, the Company has never paid any cash dividends on its
Common Stock.

The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's Common Stock at
December 31, 1996 was 4,956. This number does not include shareholders for whom
shares are held in a "nominee" or "street" name.


ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(thousands except per share amounts)     1996             1995              1994             1993               1992
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>               <C>                 <C>              <C>                <C>     
Statement of Operations data:
    Net sales..................     $  1,193,786      $   941,546         $773,474         $666,319           $567,315
    Net income.................          171,901          119,270           74,496           44,457             14,935
    Net income per
      share (1)................             1.03              .75              .48              .29                .10

Balance Sheet data:
    Total assets...............     $  1,515,685      $ 1,001,648         $815,871         $678,492           $561,867
    Long-term debt and non-
      current obligations under
      capital leases...........          353,666           80,000           80,061          100,297             70,632
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(1)  All references to per share amounts have been restated to reflect the
     four-for-three stock split effected in the form of a 33 1/3% stock dividend
     distributed on January 6, 1997 to stockholders of record December 16, 1996.


                                       12

<PAGE>   14
ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FISCAL 1996 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1995

The Company reported net sales of $1,194 million in fiscal 1996, up $252 million
or 27% from net sales of $942 million in fiscal 1995. Fiscal year 1996 sales
growth was attributable to significant increases in sales volumes of both the
Company's standard linear IC and system-level IC products as worldwide demand
for precision integrated circuit products continued to increase in the first
half of fiscal 1996. During the third and fourth quarters a broad-based
inventory correction by end users, customers and distributors in response to the
shorter lead times available for many products from the Company and other
suppliers caused sales levels to be flat with the second quarter. 

Demand for the Company's ICs was strong both in its core industrial and
instrumentation markets and in high-growth applications in the communications,
computer and portable wireless equipment markets. Total IC sales, representing
both standard linear and system-level ICs, constituted approximately 95% of
total sales in fiscal 1996, continuing the long-term trend of IC sales being a
major portion of the Company's revenues.

Sales of the Company's standard linear IC products, which continues to make up
the largest and most profitable part of the Company's business, increased 12% in
fiscal 1996 to $678 million. Standard linear IC sales, however, declined as a
percentage of total sales, accounting for 57% of total sales in fiscal 1996
compared to 64% in fiscal 1995, reflecting the significant revenue growth
experienced in the system-level IC business. The growth in sales of standard
linear ICs continues to be driven by the greater use of standard linear IC
products in new high-volume applications in wireless and broadband
communications, computer and consumer markets including digital cellular
handsets and base stations, video applications and imaging applications. In
fiscal 1996, the distributor channel continued to be a significant growth
channel for the Company's standard linear IC product line.

Sales of system-level ICs increased in fiscal 1996 to $453 million, as the
Company achieved substantial gains in its general-purpose digital signal
processing products and mixed-signal ICs for application-specific
system-on-a-chip solutions. The largest end user market growth for the Company's
system-level IC products was experienced in wireless communications
applications, including digital mobile phones and base stations. As a percentage
of total sales, system-level IC products, increased to 38% of total sales
compared to 28% in fiscal 1995.

Sales of the Company's assembled products decreased approximately $12 million
or 17% from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 and as a percentage of total sales
decreased from 8% to 5% over this same period. The Company believes this sales
decrease reflects the decline in the market opportunities for this product line.

In fiscal 1996, sales to North American customers followed the trend of the
prior year and increased $90 million or 22% over fiscal 1995 to $503 million.
Sales to customers outside North America, primarily Europe and Southeast Asia,
increased $162 million or 31% to $691 million. Sales to European customers
increased $100 million or 38% to $364 million, with much of this growth
resulting from the Company's increased penetration of applications in the
communications market, particularly in handsets and base stations used in the
GSM (Global System for Mobile Communications) digital cellular telephone system
now widely deployed in Western Europe. Sales in Japan increased slightly by 1%
to $167 million largely as a result of a reduction in sales of standard linear
IC products for factory automation and other industrial market applications and
the weaker Japanese industrial economy. A strengthening average U.S. dollar
exchange rate also contributed to the lack of growth in Japanese sales. Sales to
customers in Southeast Asia increased 60% or $60 million to $160 million
compared to fiscal 1995 due to increased demand for products in the hard disk
drive, communications and computer products segments. As a percentage of total
sales, North American and international sales accounted for 42% and 58%,
respectively, compared to 44% and 56% in fiscal 1995.

In fiscal 1995 the distributor channel was a major contributor to sales growth
in North America as well as in Europe and Japan, especially for standard linear
IC and DSP products. Worldwide sales through distribution increased
approximately 23% from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 and represented 41% of the
Company's total sales. Worldwide OEM sales increased by approximately 30% and
represented 59% of the Company's sales.


                                       13
<PAGE>   15
During fiscal 1996 the Company continued the multi-faceted manufacturing
capacity expansion program started in 1995 to substantially increase the number
of fabricated wafers available to it in fiscal 1996 and beyond. See "Liquidity
and Capital Resources" below for a discussion of the Company's actions to
address its capacity issues.

Gross margin was 50.3% of sales in fiscal 1996 compared to 50.7% of sales in
fiscal 1995. The reduction in gross margin was principally due to a lower
proportion of standard linear IC products in the mix of products sold, which
generally have higher gross margins than the Company's system-level IC products.
The reduction in gross margin in fiscal 1996 was also attributable to the
increase in capacity combined with the leveling off of sales in the latter half
of the year.

Research and development expenses increased approximately 32% in fiscal 1996 to
$178 million or 14.9% of sales. This increase was mainly due to the continued
development of innovative SLIC products and processes and higher spending in the
development of new products and technologies targeted for the communications,
computer and automotive markets, including initiatives in general-purpose
digital signal processing such as the Company's SHARC product family,
system-level ICs for computer audio and wireless communications applications, RF
signal processing, surface micromachining technology, accelerometer products.
The increase in R&D expenditures in fiscal 1996 was also attributable to
increased staffing of design engineering personnel and the start up of new
design centers. The Company believes that technical leadership in the
semiconductor industry is critical to its future success and is committed to
maintaining a high level of research and development effort.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) expense growth in fiscal
1996 was held to 5.9%, as SMG&A increased from $185 million in fiscal 1995 to
$196 million in fiscal 1996. SMG&A expenses continued to decline as a percentage
of sales to 16.4% in fiscal 1996 compared to 19.6% in fiscal 1995 and 22.0% in
fiscal 1994, consistent with the Company's goal of constraining SMG&A spending
growth to a rate significantly below sales growth. The increase in SMG&A
expenses in absolute dollars was primarily related to higher incentive expenses
associated with improved revenue and profitability levels, and greater product
advertising and related promotional costs and commissions in support of the
Company's product lines and customer base.

Operating income grew 44% to 19% of sales compared to 17% of sales in fiscal
1995. This performance gain reflected the combination of accelerated demand for
the Company's products and continuing commitment to growing expenses more slowly
than sales.

Nonoperating income of $1.7 million in fiscal 1995 improved to $3.6 million in
fiscal 1996. Interest expense in fiscal 1996 increased from fiscal 1995 as a
result of the issuance of $230,000,000 of 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes
in December 1995 but this increase was more than offset by increased investment
income as a result of the positive spread between the coupon rate and the
investment rates achieved on available cash balances through fiscal 1996.

The effective income tax rate increased to 25.5% in fiscal 1996 from 25.2% in
fiscal 1995 due to earnings growth in higher tax rate jurisdictions including
the U.S. The Company maintained a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of
$7.4 million at November 2, 1996 based on management's assessment that
realization of such deferred tax assets was not assured for book and tax capital
losses. The valuation allowance balance was $10.0 million at October 28, 1995.
The net change in the valuation allowance for the fiscal year ended November 2,
1996 was a decrease of $2.6 million as a result of the utilization of book basis
foreign tax credits and the use of capital tax loss carryforwards.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses yielded a 44.1% increase in net income to $171.9 million or 14.4% of
sales compared to $119.3 million or 12.7% of sales. Earnings per share in fiscal
1996 grew 37% to $1.03 from $0.75 in fiscal 1995.

The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which will require adoption in
fiscal 1997. The Company does not believe the adoption of these statements will
have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.

The impact of inflation on the Company's business during the past three years
has not been significant.


                                       14
<PAGE>   16
FISCAL 1995 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1994

Net sales of $942 million for fiscal 1995 increased 22% from net sales of $773
million for fiscal 1994. The sales increase was due to higher sales volumes of
standard linear IC and system-level IC products which comprise approximately 92%
of total sales for fiscal 1995.

Standard linear IC sales rose $137 million or 30% to $605 million in fiscal
1995. This increase was primarily due to the combination of increased
penetration of the Company's data converter and amplifier products in
high-performance instrumentation and factory automation applications and greater
use of standard linear IC products in new high-volume applications in the
communications, computer and consumer markets including digital cellular
handsets and base stations, video and imaging applications.

Sales of system-level IC products grew $70 million or 46% to $262 million in
fiscal 1995. This growth was attributable largely to increased demand for
applications in personal computers and wireless communications products
including digital mobile phones and base stations, and the Company's broader
participation in these growing markets.

Sales of assembled products declined approximately 3% from fiscal 1994 to fiscal
1995 and as a percentage of total sales decreased from 11% to 8% over the same
period.

Sales to North American customers increased 20% over fiscal 1994 levels to $412
million with much of this increase coming from the distributor channel as sales
through North American distributors increased 40% from the prior year. Sales to
international customers grew 23% led by sales increases of approximately 24% and
34% in Japan and Europe, respectively. Sales growth in Japan was mainly
attributable to increased demand for standard linear IC products, and the weaker
U.S. dollar exchange rate also contributed to some of the sales improvement in
Japan. The sales increase in Europe represented continued strength in sales of
products in the communications markets, particularly in handsets and base
stations used in GSM digital cellular telephone systems. Southeast Asia sales of
$100 million for fiscal 1995 were flat compared to the prior year due to
significant decline in hard disk drive sales. As a percentage of total net
sales, North American and international sales remained at 44% and 56%,
respectively, which were comparable to fiscal 1994.

Gross margin improved to 50.7% of sales for fiscal 1995 compared to 49.0% for
fiscal 1994. This increase was principally due to a higher proportion of
standard linear IC products in the mix of products sold which typically generate
higher gross margins than the Company's system-level IC products. The fiscal
1995 improvement in gross margin was also attributable to greater capacity
utilization, resulting in the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs over
increased production levels.

R&D expenses for fiscal 1995 increased 26% from fiscal 1994 as the Company
continued to invest in new product development. As a percentage of sales, R&D
expenses were 14.3% in fiscal 1995 compared to 13.8% in fiscal 1994.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative (SMG&A) expense growth was held
to 8.6% compared to fiscal 1994, increasing at a lower rate than sales. As a
result, SMG&A as a percentage of sales decreased to 19.6% for fiscal 1995 from
22% for fiscal 1994. The increase in SMG&A expenses related mostly to increased
incentive expenses associated with improved revenue and profitability levels and
greater product advertising and related promotional costs in support of the
Company's product lines and customers.

In total, operating expenses were reduced to 33.9% of sales, down from 35.8% in
fiscal 1994, consistent with the Company's emphasis on maintaining tight control
over all costs in order to gain better operating leverage on increases in
revenues.

Operating income reached 16.8% of sales for fiscal 1995, an increase of 3.6
percentage points from 13.2% of sales for fiscal 1994. This performance gain
reflected the higher sales level, improvement in gross margin as a percentage of
sales and slower rate of expense growth versus sales.

Nonoperating expenses decreased $6.6 million in fiscal 1995, benefiting from a
reduction in interest expense of $2.9 million and an increase in interest income
of $2.9 million for the year. The maturity of a term loan of $20 million in
early fiscal 1995 and on average higher cash balances invested at a higher
weighted average investment rate were the main causes of the change over fiscal
1994.


                                       15
<PAGE>   17
The effective income tax rate increased to approximately 25% in fiscal 1995 from
approximately 23% in fiscal 1994 due to a shift in the mix of worldwide income.
The Company maintained a deferred tax asset valuation allowance of $10 million
at both October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994 based on management's assessment
that realization of such deferred tax assets was not assured for book and tax
capital losses and book basis foreign tax credits.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses resulted in a 60% increase in net income to $119.3 million or 12.7% of
sales in fiscal 1995 compared to $74.5 million or 9.6% of sales in fiscal 1994.
Earnings per share in fiscal 1995 grew 56% to $0.75 from $0.48 in fiscal 1994.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At November 2, 1996, the Company had $300 million of cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments compared to $151 million at October 28, 1995. The
Company's operating activities generated net cash of $144 million, or 12% of
sales, and $210 million, or 22.3% of sales, in fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995,
respectively. Investing activities used $305 million in fiscal 1996 and $239
million in fiscal 1995 while financing activities generated $301 million in
fiscal 1996 and used $11 million in fiscal 1995. Working capital increased to
$550 million at the end of fiscal 1996 from $272 million at the end of fiscal
1995. This increase was primarily due to higher cash and cash equivalents and
short-term investments and higher receivable and inventory associated with the
expanded scale of operations.

The Company's primary source of funds in fiscal year 1995 was net cash generated
by operations, but in fiscal year 1996 the primary source of funding was from
financing, the major item being the issuance of long-term convertible debt which
generated net proceeds of $224 million. There was a $67 million reduction in
operating cash flows from $210 million in fiscal 1995 to $144 million fiscal
1996. Net income was higher in fiscal 1996 by $53 million but this increase was
offset by increases in receivables and inventory which were only partially
offset by increases in depreciation and various liability accounts. The non-cash
effect of depreciation and amortization expense was $84 million and $64 million
in fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995, respectively. As a result of internal capacity
expansion, depreciation expense is expected to be higher in fiscal 1997 as these
additions continue to ramp up.

Accounts receivable of $242 million at the end of fiscal 1996 increased $61
million or 33% from $181 million at the end of fiscal 1995. This increase was
caused by an increase in revenue and non-linearity of shipments at the year end.
As a percentage of annualized fourth quarter sales, accounts receivable was
19.8% at the end of fiscal 1996 compared to 17.6% at the end of fiscal 1995 and
20.0% at the end of fiscal 1994.

Inventories rose $75 million or 52% over the prior year to $219 million at the
end of fiscal 1996. This increase was primarily due to an increase in standard
linear inventory levels needed to service increasing sales volumes and to offset
unusually low inventory levels at the end of fiscal 1995 caused by the capacity
shortages at that time and to improve customer response times. Additional
manufacturing capacity during fiscal 1996 also caused inventory levels to
increase. Accordingly, year-end inventories as a percentage of annualized fourth
quarter sales increased from 14% in fiscal 1995 to 18% in fiscal 1996.

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities remained essentially flat at
approximately $174 million at the end of both fiscal 1996 and 1995, as increases
caused by increased expense activity related to the higher revenue level were
offset by reductions in capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of fiscal
1996 when compared to the year-earlier period.

The Company's principal investment activities during fiscal 1996 were in support
of its manufacturing capacity expansion programs and included capital
expenditures of $234 million and an investment of $42 million (which was an
installment on an 18% share in a wafer fabrication facility on a joint venture
basis with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company ("TSMC"))and a further
investment of approximately $7 million in Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing,
Pte. Ltd. in Singapore.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 1996, of $234 million, were $21 million higher
than in fiscal 1995 with a significant portion of these expenditures related to
the construction of additional manufacturing capacity including further
development of the six-inch wafer fabrication plant at the Company's Limerick
manufacturing facility.


                                       16
<PAGE>   18
Also during fiscal 1996, the Company continued to upgrade its existing
Wilmington, Massachusetts wafer fabrication facility from four-inch to six-inch
wafer production. This additional capacity became available in the latter half
of fiscal 1996, and is used primarily for high-speed linear products. In
addition, the Company continued development of the six-inch wafer fabrication
module located in Sunnyvale, California. This six-inch facility is being
upgraded and modernized and a CBCMOS process is currently being developed.
Production was scheduled to start in late 1996 but because of the slowdown in
demand, production is temporarily delayed. The Company also signed an agreement
to lease a wafer fabrication facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts and is
upgrading this facility which will be used for the production of the
accelerometer and other micromachined products. The Company also expanded
assembly and test facilities in the Philippines during fiscal 1996 by adding a
new site which is expected to commence production in early 1997.

In June 1996, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with TSMC, two
other companies and several individual investors for the construction and
operation of a semiconductor fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. The
Company acquired an 18% equity ownership in the joint venture, known as
WaferTech, in return for a $140.4 million investment. The investment is to be
made in three installments of which the first and second were made on June 25,
1996 and December 2, 1996 both in the amount of $42.1 million. The remaining
installment of $56.2 million is due on November 3, 1997.

In fiscal 1995, the Company made an equity investment of $14 million in
Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM") in Singapore and in
fiscal 1996 the Company made an additional investment of approximately $7 
million, in exchange for less than 5% ownership interest.

In fiscal 1995, the Company entered into a supply agreement with its primary
wafer foundry, TSMC. Under this agreement, the Company agreed to make a series
of advance payments to TSMC aggregating $22.4 million, payable over a three-year
period, in order to secure access to a minimum level of wafer capacity over the
period from 1996 to 1999. However, during fiscal 1996 the arrangement was
modified whereby the Company would maintain a constant deposit of $6.4 million
with TSMC.

In January 1996, the Company entered into an additional agreement with CSM,
whereby the Company will provide a total deposit of approximately $20.0 million
to be paid in several installments in 1996 and 1997. In fiscal 1996 $8.0 million
was provided to CSM under this arrangement and is classified in the balance
sheet line item, "Deferred Charges and Other Assets." Under the terms of this
agreement, the deposit will guarantee access to certain quantities of sub-micron
wafers through fiscal 2000. If the Company does not purchase the minimum
quantities under the agreement, the deposit will be forfeited for the value of
the wafer shortfall up to the total amount of $20.0 million. At the end of the
agreement term, the Company's deposit will be returned, net of any forfeitures.

The Company currently plans to make capital expenditures of approximately $175
million in fiscal 1997, primarily in connection with the continued expansion of
its manufacturing capacity.

Financing activities in fiscal 1996 generated cash of $224 million from the
issuance of long-term convertible debt, $62 million from equipment financing and
$26 million from the issuance of common stock under the employee stock purchase
and stock option plans. Cash used in the Company's financing activities in
fiscal 1996 was for the repayment of $4 million of variable rate borrowings and
$7 million for the repayment of capital lease obligations.

At November 2, 1996, the Company's principal sources of liquidity included $300
million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Short-term
investments at the end of fiscal 1996 consisted of commercial paper,
certificates of deposit and Euro time deposits with maturities greater than
three months and less than six months at the time of acquisition. The Company
also has various lines of credit both in the U.S. and overseas, including a $60
million credit facility in the U.S. which expires in 2000, all of which were
substantially unused at the end of fiscal 1996. At the end of fiscal 1996, 
the Company's debt-to-equity ratio was 42%.


                                       17
<PAGE>   19
On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000 of
five-year 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semi-annual interest payments on June 1 and December 1 of each year, commencing
June 1, 1996. The Notes are convertible, at the option of the holder, into the
Company's common stock at any time unless previously redeemed by the Company, at
a conversion price of $20.938 per share, subject to adjustment in certain
events. The net proceeds of the offering were approximately $224 million after
payment of the underwriting discount and expenses of the offering which will be
amortized over the term of the Notes.

The Company believes that its existing sources of liquidity and cash expected to
be generated from future operations, together with current and anticipated
available long-term financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital
expenditures and research and development efforts for the foreseeable future.

LITIGATION

As set forth in Item 3 - "Business-Legal Proceedings," the Company is no longer
engaged in an enforcement proceeding brought by the International Trade
Commission ("ITC") related to previously settled patent infringement litigation
with Texas Instruments, Inc. However, the ITC has referred certain related
matters to the Department of Justice. The Company is unable to determine what,
if any, action may be taken by the Department of Justice, but the Company plans
to vigorously defend itself in the event that any enforcement action is taken by
the Department of Justice on any of the matters referred to it by the ITC.

FACTORS WHICH MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

The Company's future operating results are difficult to predict and may be
affected by a number of factors including the timing of new product
announcements or introductions by the Company and its competitors, competitive
pricing pressures, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability
of wafers and manufacturing capacity, changes in product mix and economic
conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, the
semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant
economic downturns at various times. During the past six months demand for the
Company's product has leveled off, and the Company has used this opportunity to
replenish inventory which had been depleted in the prior year. These higher
inventory levels expose the Company to the risk of obsolescence depending on the
mix of future business. As a result of these and other factors, there can be no
assurance that the Company will not experience material fluctuations in future
operating results on a quarterly or annual basis.

The Company's success depends in part on its continued ability to develop and
market new products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
develop and introduce new products in a timely manner or that such products, if
developed, will achieve market acceptance. In addition, the Company's growth is
dependent on its continued ability to penetrate new markets such as the
communications, computer and automotive segments of the electronics market,
where the Company has limited experience and competition is intense. There can
be no assurance that the markets being served by the Company will grow in the
future; that the Company's existing and new products will meet the requirements
of such markets; that the Company's products will achieve customer acceptance in
such markets; that competitors will not force prices to an unacceptably low
level or take market share from the Company; or that the Company can achieve or
maintain profits in these markets. Also, some of the customers in these markets
are less well established which could subject the Company to increased credit
risk.

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Certain of the Company's
competitors have greater technical, marketing, manufacturing and financial
resources than the Company. The Company's competitors also include emerging
companies attempting to sell products to specialized markets such as those
served by the Company. Competitors of the Company have, in some cases, developed
and marketed products having similar design and functionality as the Company's
products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete
successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that the
Company's operating results will not be adversely affected by increased price
competition.

During fiscal 1996, the Company increased substantially its manufacturing
capacity through both expansion of its production facilities and increased
access to third-party foundries; there can be no assurance that the Company will
not encounter unanticipated production problems at either its own facilities or
at third-party foundries; or that the increased capacity will be sufficient to
satisfy demand for its products. The Company relies, and plans to continue to
rely, on assembly and test subcontractors and on third-party wafer fabricators
to supply most of its wafers that can be manufactured using industry-standard
digital processes, and such reliance involves several risks, including reduced
control over delivery schedules,


                                       18

<PAGE>   20
manufacturing yields and costs. In addition, the Company's capacity additions
will result in a significant increase in operating expenses, and if revenue
levels do not increase to offset these additional expense levels, the Company's
future operating results could be adversely affected, including the potential
adverse impact in operating results for "take or pay" covenants in certain of
its supply agreements. With its greater capacity relative to demand, the Company
has increased its levels of inventory. The Company's business is subject to
rapid technological changes and there can be no assurance that products stocked
in inventory will not be rendered obsolete before they are utilized by the
Company. The Company also believes that other semiconductor manufacturers are
also expanding or planning to expand their production capacity over the next
several years, and there can be no assurance that the expansion by the Company
and its competitors will not lead to overcapacity in the Company's target
markets, which could lead to price erosion that would adversely affect the
Company's operating results.

For fiscal 1996, 58% of the Company's revenues were derived from customers in
international markets. The Company has manufacturing facilities in Ireland, the
Philippines and Taiwan. The Company is therefore subject to the economic and
political risks inherent in international operations, including expropriation,
air transportation disruptions, currency controls and changes in currency
exchange rates, tax and tariff rates and freight rates. Although the Company
engages in certain hedging transactions to reduce its exposure to currency
exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that the Company's
competitive position will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange
rate of the U.S. dollar against other currencies.

The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation
involving patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has from
time to time received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties
asserting that the Company's products or processes infringe their patents or
other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid
intellectual property claim and a license is not available on commercially
reasonable terms, the Company's operating results could be materially and
adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents or other
intellectual property rights of the Company or to defend the Company against
claims of infringement, and such litigation can be costly and divert the
attention of key personnel. See Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" for information
concerning pending litigation involving the Company. An adverse outcome in such
litigation, may, in certain cases, have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or on its consolidated results of
operations or cash flows in the period in which the litigation is resolved.

Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be
considered an indicator of future performance. Investors should not use
historical trends to anticipate future results and should be aware that the
trading price of the Company's common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations
in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, general
conditions in the semiconductor industry, changes in earnings estimates and
recommendations by analysts or other events.


                                       19
<PAGE>   21
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                           YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 1996

                                     ITEM 8

          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION


                                       20
<PAGE>   22
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   PAGE
                                                                                                   ----
<S>                                                                                                <C>
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION INCLUDED IN ITEM 8:

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors................................................   22

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995
   and October 29, 1994 .........................................................................   23

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994 .......   24

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended November 2, 1996,
   October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994 ........................................................   25

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995
   and October 29, 1994 .........................................................................   26

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.......................................................   27

Supplementary Financial Information
   (Quarterly Financial Information/1996 and 1995 - Unaudited)...................................   43
</TABLE>


                                       21

<PAGE>   23
                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Analog Devices,
Inc. as of November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended November 2, 1996. Our audits
also included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item
14(a). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Analog
Devices, Inc. at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended November 2, 1996, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the
information set forth therein.


                                          ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
December 3, 1996


                                       22
<PAGE>   24
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Years ended November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
(thousands except per share amounts)                                           1996              1995           1994
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>             <C>                                                        <C>               <C>             <C>       
REVENUE         Net sales................................................  $ 1,193,786       $   941,546     $  773,474

COSTS AND       Cost of sales............................................      593,033           464,571        394,448
EXPENSES
                Gross margin.............................................      600,753           476,975        379,026

                Operating expenses:
                  Research and development...............................      177,772          134,265         106,869
                  Selling, marketing, general
                    and administrative...................................      195,842          184,943         170,341
                                                                           -----------       -----------     ----------
                                                                               373,614          319,208         277,210
                                                                           -----------       -----------     ----------

                Operating income.........................................      227,139          157,767         101,816

                Nonoperating (income) expenses:
                  Interest expense.......................................       11,289            4,201           7,149
                  Interest income........................................      (16,535)          (8,103)         (5,165)
                  Other..................................................        1,645            2,234           2,921
                                                                           -----------       -----------     ----------
                                                                                (3,601)          (1,668)          4,905
                                                                           -----------       -----------     ----------

EARNINGS        Income before income taxes...............................      230,740          159,435          96,911

                Provision for income taxes:
                  Payable currently......................................       52,115           52,414          30,720
                  Deferred (prepaid).....................................        6,724          (12,249)         (8,305)
                                                                           -----------       -----------     ----------
                                                                                58,839           40,165          22,415
                                                                           -----------       -----------     ----------

                Net income ..............................................  $   171,901       $  119,270      $   74,496
                                                                           ===========       ==========      ==========
                Shares used to compute earnings per share................      171,289          158,715         154,539
                                                                           ===========       ==========      ==========
                Earnings per share of common stock.......................  $      1.03       $      .75      $      .48
                                                                           ===========       ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.


                                       23
<PAGE>   25
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
(thousands except share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ASSETS                                                                              1996           1995          1994
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>                                                         <C>            <C>           <C>       
CURRENT             Cash and cash equivalents...............................    $  210,109     $   69,303    $  109,113
ASSETS              Short-term investments..................................        89,810         81,810        72,652
                    Accounts receivable less allowances of $7,374
                      ($4,439 in 1995 and $6,403 in 1994)...................       241,847        181,327       162,337
                    Inventories.............................................       218,877        143,962       130,726
                    Deferred tax assets.....................................        44,879         39,650        25,587
                    Prepaid expenses and other current assets...............        14,728          9,966         5,042
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total current assets....................................       820,250        526,018       505,457
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------

PROPERTY,           Land and buildings......................................       140,776        139,718       111,857
PLANT AND           Machinery and equipment.................................       800,086        633,124       477,339
EQUIPMENT,          Office equipment........................................        46,307         41,260        36,613
AT COST             Leasehold improvements..................................        80,099         42,165        33,070
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                 1,067,268        856,267       658,879
                    Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..........       483,946        424,305       377,064
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Net property, plant and equipment.......................       583,322        431,962       281,815
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------

OTHER               Investments.............................................        68,382         13,980             -
ASSETS              Intangible assets, net..................................        16,846         17,230        19,262
                    Deferred charges and other assets.......................        26,885         12,458         9,337
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total other assets......................................       112,113         43,668        28,599
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                $1,515,685    $ 1,001,648    $  815,871
                                                                                ==========    ===========    ==========
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                 <C>                                                         <C>            <C>           <C>
CURRENT             Short-term borrowings and current portion of
LIABILITIES           long-term debt........................................    $      178     $    2,299    $   22,917
                    Obligations under capital leases........................        10,960             60           236
                    Accounts payable........................................        90,177        100,217        74,506
                    Deferred income on shipments to domestic distributors...        38,400         27,588        18,881
                    Income taxes payable....................................        46,459         50,086        29,425
                    Accrued liabilities.....................................        84,062         74,138        60,221
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total current liabilities...............................       270,236        254,388       206,186
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------

NONCURRENT          Long-term debt..........................................       310,000         80,000        80,000
LIABILITIES         Noncurrent obligations under capital leases.............        43,666              -            61
                    Deferred income taxes...................................        16,992          5,039         3,225
                    Other noncurrent liabilities............................        11,956          6,255         4,484
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total noncurrent liabilities............................       382,614         91,294        87,770
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------

                    Commitments and Contingencies

STOCKHOLDERS'       Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 500,000 shares
EQUITY                authorized, none outstanding..........................             -              -             -
                    Common stock, $.16 2/3 par value, 450,000,000
                      shares authorized, 158,745,219 shares issued
                      (114,583,932 in 1995 and 75,252,112 in 1994)..........        26,458         19,098        12,542
                    Capital in excess of par value, net of deferred compen-
                      sation of $4,679 ($3,181 in 1995 and $4,757 in 1994)         176,357        149,775       141,159
                    Retained earnings.......................................       653,365        481,464       362,194
                    Cumulative translation adjustment.......................         6,655          5,870         6,020
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                   862,835        656,207       521,915
                    Less shares in treasury, at cost, none in 1996
                      (51,876 in 1995 and none in 1994).....................             -            241             -
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total stockholders' equity..............................       862,835        655,966       521,915
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                $1,515,685     $1,001,648    $  815,871
                                                                                ==========     ==========    ==========
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.


                                       24
<PAGE>   26
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Years ended November 2, 1996,                                     CAPITAL IN                 CUMULATIVE
October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994         COMMON STOCK        EXCESS OF     RETAINED     TRANSLATION     TREASURY STOCK
                                              ------------                                                   --------------
(thousands)                                 SHARES     AMOUNT     PAR VALUE     EARNINGS     ADJUSTMENT    SHARES      AMOUNT
====================================================================================================================================
<S>                 <C>                     <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>       
             Balance, October 30,
                    1993                    50,925    $  8,488    $143,502      $287,698       $5,473     (1,727)    $ (13,143)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1994                                                      74,496
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1994          stock plans and other,
              net of repurchases               470          78       7,276                                   501         3,483
           Compensation recognized
              under Restricted Stock Plan                            1,851
           Tax benefit on exercise of non-
              qualified stock options and
              disqualifying dispositions
              under stock plans                                      2,166
           Three-for-two stock split        23,857       3,976     (13,636)                                1,226         9,660
           Currency translation
              adjustment                                                                          547
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, October 29,
              1994                          75,252      12,542     141,159       362,194        6,020         --            --
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1995                                                     119,270
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1995          stock plans and other,
              net of repurchases             1,137         190      10,462                                   (35)         (241)
           Compensation recognized
              under Restricted Stock Plan                            1,672
           Tax benefit on exercise of non-
              qualified stock options and
              disqualifying dispositions
              under stock plans                                      2,848
           Three-for-two stock split        38,195       6,366      (6,366)                                  (17)           --
           Currency translation
              adjustment                                                                         (150)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, October 28,
              1995                         114,584      19,098     149,775       481,464        5,870        (52)         (241)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1996                                                     171,901
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1996          stock plans and other,
              net of repurchases             2,228         371      15,474                                    52           241
           Exercise of warrants              2,250         375      11,721
           Compensation recognized
              under Restricted Stock Plan                            1,949
           Tax benefit on exercise of non-
              qualified stock options and
              disqualifying dispositions
              under stock plans                                      4,052
           Four-for-three stock split*      39,683       6,614      (6,614)
           Currency translation
              adjustment                                                                          785
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance at November 2,
              1996                         158,745    $ 26,458    $176,357      $653,365       $6,655         --     $      --
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.
* See Note 2(p)

                                       25
<PAGE>   27
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Years ended November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
(thousands)                                                                      1996              1995            1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>            <C>                                                          <C>               <C>            <C>       
OPERATIONS     Cash flows from operations:
                  Net income .............................................  $ 171,901         $ 119,270      $   74,496
                  Adjustments to reconcile net income
                    to net cash provided by operations:
                      Depreciation and amortization.......................     83,809            64,098          61,284
                      Deferred income taxes...............................      6,565           (12,360)         (6,024)
                      Other noncash expenses (income).....................       (638)              151           2,195
                      (Increase) in accounts receivable...................    (66,860)          (18,263)         (7,661)
                      (Increase) decrease in inventories..................    (76,748)          (14,402)         20,756
                      (Increase) in prepaid expenses and other
                         current assets...................................     (4,782)           (4,959)           (598)
                      Increase in accounts payable,
                         deferred income and accrued liabilities..........     23,844            51,332          28,939
                      Increase in income taxes payable....................        425            23,784          14,063
                      Increase (decrease) in other liabilities............      6,201             1,599            (839)
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------
                  Total adjustments.......................................    (28,184)           90,980         112,115
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

               Net cash provided by operations............................    143,717           210,250         186,611
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

INVESTMENTS Cash flows from investments:
                  Purchase of short-term investments available for sale...   (262,648)         (166,225)        (72,652)
                  Maturities of short-term investments available for sale.    254,648           162,067               -
                  Additions to property, plant and equipment, net.........   (234,099)         (212,671)        (90,856)
                  Long-term investments...................................    (54,402)                -               -
                  (Increase) in other assets..............................     (8,971)          (16,878)         (3,269)
                  Purchase of short-term investments held to maturity.....          -            (7,200)              -
                  Maturities of short-term investments held to maturity...          -             2,200               -
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------
               Net cash used for investments..............................   (305,472)         (238,707)       (166,777)
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

FINANCING      Cash flows from financing activities:
ACTIVITIES        Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt................    224,385                 -               -
                  Proceeds from equipment financing.......................     61,793                 -               -
                  Proceeds from employee stock plans......................     14,028            10,126           9,821
                  Proceeds from warrants exercised........................     12,096                 -               -
                  Net increase (decrease) in variable rate borrowings.....     (3,580)             (787)            485
                  Payments on capital lease obligations...................     (7,227)             (237)           (335)
                  Payments on long-term debt..............................          -           (20,000)              -
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

               Net cash (used for) provided by financing activities.......    301,495           (10,898)          9,971
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

               Effect of exchange rate changes on cash....................      1,066              (455)         (1,360)
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

               Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents.......    140,806           (39,810)         28,445
               Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year.............     69,303           109,113          80,668
                                                                            ---------         ---------      ----------

               Cash and cash equivalents at end of year...................  $ 210,109         $  69,303      $  109,113
                                                                            =========         =========      ==========

SUPPLE-        Cash paid during the year for:
MENTAL            Income taxes............................................  $  52,541         $  30,511      $   12,965
                                                                            =========         =========      ==========
INFORMATION       Interest................................................  $  10,171         $   6,685      $    6,923
                                                                            =========         =========      ==========
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.


                                       26

<PAGE>   28
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 1996, OCTOBER 28, 1995 AND OCTOBER 29, 1994
           (ALL TABULAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's two principal product groups are
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs") and
system-level ICs. The latter group includes general-purpose digital signal
processing ICs (DSPs) and application-specific devices that typically
incorporate analog and mixed-signal circuitry and a DSP core. Analog's third
product group consists of devices manufactured using assembled product
technology.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a.  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. The Company's fiscal year
ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal year 1996 was a
53 week year, while 1995 and 1994 were each 52 week years.

Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to
the 1996 presentation.

b.  CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with insignificant
interest rate risk and maturities of three months or less at the time of
acquisition. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months at time
of acquisition are considered short-term investments. Short-term investments
consist of debt securities such as commercial paper, time deposits, certificates
of deposit and bankers acceptances. Long-term investments consist of equity
securities and bank money market funds as well as time deposits which the
Company intends to renew at each maturity date.

Effective October 30, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" (FAS 115), which creates certain classification categories
for such investments, based on the nature of the securities and the intent and
investment goals of the Company. FAS 115 requires investments in debt and equity
securities to be classified as "held-to-maturity," "available-for-sale," or
"trading" at the time of purchase and for such designation to be reevaluated as
of each balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity securities, which are carried at
amortized cost, include only those securities the Company has the positive
intent and ability to hold to maturity. Available-for-sale securities are
carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of related tax, if
any, reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Realized gains
and losses, declines in value judged to be other than temporary, as well as
interest, dividends and capital gains distributions on all securities are
included in earnings. At November 2, 1996, the Company did not own any
securities classified as trading.


                                       27
<PAGE>   29
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

While it is the intent of management to hold securities to maturity, unforeseen
events, while not generally expected, could cause the Company to liquidate
certain securities prior to maturity. Accordingly, those securities which could
readily be sold back to the seller are classified as available-for-sale.
Securities, such as bank time deposits, which by their nature are typically
held-to-maturity are classified as such. The following is a summary of
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at November 2, 1996 and
October 28, 1995:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE                  HELD-TO-MATURITY
                                ------------------------------------------------   ----------------
                                                 GROSS       GROSS
                                            UNREALIZED  UNREALIZED     ESTIMATED
1996                                COST         GAINS      LOSSES    FAIR VALUE         COST
===================================================================================================
<S>                             <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>             <C>    
Cash equivalents:                                           
   Commercial paper             $ 83,713          $ --          $-      $ 83,713      $    --
   Euro time deposits                 --            --           -            --       94,656
   Certificates of deposit         8,000            --           -         8,000           --
Short-term investments:                                     
   Commercial paper               89,810            --           -        89,810           --
Long-term investments:                                      
   Equity securities               4,186           386           2         4,570           --
   Euro time deposits                 --            --           -            --          836
   Bank money market fund             19            --           -            19           --
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                           $185,728          $386          $2      $186,112      $95,492
===================================================================================================

1995                                                        
===================================================================================================
Cash equivalents:                                           
   Commercial paper             $ 27,727          $ --          $-      $ 27,727      $    --
   Euro time deposits                 --            --           -            --       31,300
Short-term investments:                                     
   Commercial paper               73,874            --           -        73,874           --
   Bankers' acceptances            2,936            --           -         2,936           --
   Euro time deposits                 --            --           -            --        5,000
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                           $104,537          $ --          $-      $104,537      $36,300
===================================================================================================
</TABLE>
                                                    
Cash equivalents and short-term investments classified as available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity at November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995 have contractual
maturities of six months or less at time of acquisition. Because of the short
term to maturity, and hence relative price insensitivity to changes in market
interest rates, amortized cost approximates fair value for all of these
securities. As such, no unrealized gains or losses were recorded during each of
those years. Long-term bank time deposits, although renewed on a continual
basis, typically have original maturities of two weeks. As such, they are price
insensitive to changes in market interest rates and amortized cost therefore
approximates fair value. Bank money market funds, which have been categorized as
long-term investments, by their nature maintain a constant par value of $1 per
share. Amortized cost for these securities, therefore, approximates fair value.

The fair value of long-term equity securities was determined based on published
market quotes at November 1, 1996. The net unrealized gain of $384,000 is
included in stockholders' equity at November 2, 1996. There were no gross
realized gains from the sale of available-for-sale securities for the years
ended November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995. Gross realized losses from the sale
of available-for-sale securities for the year ended November 2, 1996 were not
material. There were no gross realized losses from the sale of
available-for-sale securities for the year ended October 28, 1995.


                                       28
<PAGE>   30
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

c.  INVENTORIES

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or
market. Inventories at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1996                     1995                   1994
================================================================================================
<S>                                 <C>                      <C>                    <C>       
        Raw materials               $   31,039               $   22,327             $   15,277
        Work in process                115,799                   77,526                 69,771
        Finished goods                  72,039                   44,109                 45,678
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total inventories           $  218,877               $  143,962             $  130,726
================================================================================================
</TABLE>

A director of a raw material supplier was also a director of the Company through
January 1995. Total purchases from this supplier approximated $11,038,000
through January 1995 and $28,435,000 in 1994. Accounts payable to this supplier
at October 29, 1994 approximated $1,090,000. The Company believes that the terms
of these purchases were comparable to those available from other suppliers.

d.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less allowances for
depreciation and amortization. The straight-line method of depreciation is used
for all classes of assets for financial statement purposes; both straight-line
and accelerated methods are used for income tax purposes. Capitalized leases and
leasehold improvements are amortized based upon the lesser of the term of the
lease or the useful life of the asset. Depreciation and amortization are based
on the following useful lives:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          <S>                                  <C>     
          Buildings & Building Equipment       Up to 25 years
          Machinery & Equipment                    3-10 years
          Office Equipment                          3-8 years
</TABLE>

Total depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment was
$81,740,000, $62,066,000 and $59,240,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

e.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets at November 2, 1996 consist of goodwill, patents and other
intangibles. Goodwill is being amortized on a straight-line basis over a
fifteen-year period. Patents and other intangibles are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives which range from seven
to fifteen years. Amortization expense for all intangible assets was $2,069,000,
$2,032,000 and $2,044,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Accumulated
amortization for all intangible assets was $12,737,000, $10,668,000 and
$8,636,000 at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994,
respectively. On a periodic basis, the Company estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the businesses to which the intangible assets relate in order to
ensure that the carrying value of such intangible assets has not been impaired.

f.  GRANT ACCOUNTING

The Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland has received various
grants from the Industrial Development Authority of the Republic of Ireland.
These grants include capital, employment, and research and development grants.
Capital grants for the acquisition of property and equipment are netted against
the related capital expenditures and amortized as a credit to depreciation
expense over the useful life of the related asset. Employment grants, which
relate to employee hiring and training, and research and development grants are
recognized in earnings in the period in which the related expenditures are
incurred by the Company.


                                       29
<PAGE>   31
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

g.  TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES

The functional currency for the Company's foreign sales operations is the
applicable local currency. Gains and losses resulting from translation of these
foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are accumulated in a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in income
currently, including those at the Company's principal foreign manufacturing
operations where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Net foreign
currency transaction gains or losses included in other expenses, net, were not
material in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994.

h.  FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS AND INTEREST RATE AGREEMENTS

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency
option contracts and currency swap agreements to offset certain operational and
balance sheet exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such
exposures result from the portion of the Company's operations, assets and
liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies. These foreign exchange contract,
option and swap transactions are entered into to support product sales,
purchases and financing transactions made in the normal course of business, and
accordingly, are not speculative in nature.

Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to manage the risk associated
with currency fluctuations on certain firm sales and purchase commitments
denominated in foreign currencies and certain non-U.S. dollar denominated asset
and liability positions. The Company's forward foreign exchange contracts are
primarily denominated in Japanese yen and certain European currencies and are
for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally
one year or less. The forward foreign exchange contracts that relate to firm,
foreign currency sales and purchase commitments are designated and effective as
hedges of firm, identifiable foreign currency commitments, and accordingly, the
gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate movements
on these contracts are not recognized in operations until the underlying hedged
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such gains and losses are
recorded in operations as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the underlying
transactions in the period in which these transactions are recognized.
Unrealized gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate
movements on forward foreign exchange contracts designated to offset certain
non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are recognized as other
income or expense in the period in which the exchange rates change and offset
the foreign currency gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged.
The contract amounts of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding were
$147.0 million, $181.7 million and $136.4 million at November 2, 1996, October
28, 1995 and October 29, 1994, respectively.

The Company also may periodically enter into foreign currency option contracts
to offset certain probable anticipated, but not firmly committed, foreign
currency transactions related to the sale of product during the ensuing nine
months. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign
currencies, the decline in value of future currency cash flows is partially
offset by the gains in value of the purchased currency options designated as
hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the increase in value of future
foreign currency cash flows is reduced only by the premium paid to acquire the
options. The Company's foreign currency option contracts are primarily
denominated in Japanese yen and generally have maturities which do not exceed
six months. These foreign currency option contracts are designated and effective
as hedges of anticipated foreign currency sales transactions, and accordingly,
the premium cost and any realized gains associated with these contracts are
deferred and included in the consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and
accrued liabilities, respectively, until such time as the underlying sales
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such premium costs and any
realized gains are recorded in sales as a component of the underlying sales
transactions being hedged. The contract amounts of foreign currency option
contracts outstanding were $27.6 million, $26.9 million and $28.6 million at
November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994, respectively. Deferred
gains or losses attributable to foreign currency option contracts were not
material at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.


                                       30
<PAGE>   32
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The Company uses currency swap agreements to hedge the value of its net
investment in certain of its foreign subsidiaries. Realized and unrealized gains
and losses on such agreements related to the net foreign investment being hedged
are recognized in the cumulative translation adjustment component of
stockholders' equity, with the related amounts due to or from counterparties
included in accrued liabilities or other current assets. The contract amount of
currency swap agreements outstanding, which were principally denominated in
Japanese yen, was $10.0 million at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and
October 29, 1994. The currency swap agreement outstanding at November 2, 1996
has a remaining maturity of 3.5 years and is expected to remain in effect until
expiration.

The Company enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its
exposure to interest rate movements by effectively converting a portion of its
debt and certain financing arrangements from fixed to variable rates. Maturity
dates of interest rate swap and cap agreements generally match those of the
underlying debt or financing arrangements. These agreements, which have
maturities of up to eleven years involve the exchange of fixed rate payments for
variable rate payments without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Variable rates are based on six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and reset on a
semiannual basis. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid
or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with the
agreements and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to
interest expense. The notional principal amounts of interest rate swap and cap
agreements outstanding were $50.2 million, $50.3 million and $50.5 million at
November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994.

The cash requirements of the above-described financial instruments approximate
their fair value. Cash flows associated with these financial instruments are
classified consistent with the cash flows from the transactions being hedged.

Derivative financial instruments involve, to a varying degree, elements of
market and credit risk not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency
exchange rate or interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk
of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The
counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's foreign exchange and
interest rate instruments consist of a number of major international financial
institutions with high credit ratings. The Company does not believe that there
is significant risk of nonperformance by these counterparties because the
Company continually monitors the credit ratings of such counterparties, and
limits the financial exposure and the amount of agreements entered into with any
one financial institution. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative
financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions,
they do not represent the amount of the Company's exposure to credit risk. The
amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability
of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to
the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the
contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.


                                       31
<PAGE>   33
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

i.  FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following estimated fair value amounts have been determined by the Company
using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to
develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein
are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in
a current market exchange.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            NOVEMBER 2, 1996               OCTOBER 28, 1995               OCTOBER 29, 1994
                                            ----------------               ----------------               ----------------
                                       CARRYING            FAIR       CARRYING           FAIR        CARRYING            FAIR
(THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)                   AMOUNT           VALUE         AMOUNT          VALUE          AMOUNT           VALUE
====================================================================================================================================
<S>                                    <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>              <C>    
Assets:
     Cash and cash equivalents          210,109         210,109         69,303         69,303         109,113         109,113
     Short-term investments              89,810          89,810         81,810         81,810          72,652          72,652
     Long-term investments                5,425           5,425             --             --              --              --

Liabilities:
     Short-term borrowings                 (178)           (178)        (2,299)        (2,299)         (2,917)         (2,917)
     Long-term debt, including
       current portion                 (310,000)       (369,513)       (80,000)       (80,130)       (100,000)        (93,800)
Foreign Currency Instruments and
   Interest Rate Agreements:
     Interest rate swap
       and cap agreements                    18            (491)           (30)          (175)              5          (3,065)
     Forward foreign currency
       exchange contracts                 2,672           3,585          7,798          9,089          (1,458)            641
     Foreign currency option
       contracts                            130             240            388          1,645             308              41
     Currency swap agreements             1,131             922            413            485            (853)           (840)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating its
fair value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash, cash equivalents and investments -The carrying amounts of these items are
a reasonable estimate of their fair value due to the short term to maturity and
readily available market for these types of investments.

Short-term borrowings-The carrying amounts of these variable-rate borrowings
approximate fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.

Long-term debt-The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on current
interest rates available to the Company for debt instruments with similar terms,
degree of risk and remaining maturities.

Interest rate swap and cap agreements-The fair value of interest rate swap and
cap agreements are obtained from dealer quotes. These values represent the
estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate the agreements
taking into consideration current interest rates.

Forward foreign currency exchange contacts-The estimated fair value of forward
foreign currency exchange contracts is based on the estimated amount at which
they could be settled based on market exchange rates.

Foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements-The fair values
of foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements are obtained
from dealer quotes. These values represent the estimated net amount the Company
would receive or pay to terminate the agreements.


                                       32
<PAGE>   34
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


j.  USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates relate to
the useful lives of fixed assets, allowances for doubtful accounts and customer
returns, inventory reserves, potential reserves relating to litigation matters,
accrued liabilities, and other reserves. Actual results could differ from those
estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements.

k.  CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of investments and trade accounts receivable.

The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with
high credit quality financial institutions and monitors the amount of credit
exposure to any one financial institution.

The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
manufacturers involved in a variety of industries including industrial
automation, instrumentation, military/aerospace, and to an increasing degree,
communications, computers and peripherals, and high-performance consumer
electronics. The Company has adopted credit policies and standards to
accommodate growth into these markets. The Company performs continuing credit
evaluations of its customers' financial condition and although the Company
generally does not require collateral, letters of credit may be required from
its customers in certain circumstances. Bad debt losses to date have been
insignificant.

l.  CONCENTRATION OF OTHER RISKS

The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change,
competitive pricing pressures, and cyclical market patterns. The Company's
financial results are affected by a wide variety of factors, including general
economic conditions worldwide, economic conditions specific to the semiconductor
industry, the timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies, the
ability to safeguard patents and intellectual property in a rapidly evolving
market, and reliance on assembly and test subcontractors, third-party wafer
fabricators and independent distributors. As a result, the Company may
experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results
due to the factors mentioned above or other factors.

m.  REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenue from product sales to end users is recognized upon shipment. A portion
of the Company's sales are made to domestic distributors under agreements
allowing for price protection and certain rights of return on merchandise unsold
by the distributors. Because of the uncertainty associated with pricing
concessions and future returns, the Company defers recognition of such sales and
related gross margin until the merchandise is sold by the distributors. For
sales to international distributors, the Company recognizes the sale upon
shipment to the distributor, but provides specific reserves for possible returns
and allowances.

n.  INCOME TAXES

Income taxes have been provided in accordance with FAS 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes," under which deferred tax liabilities and assets at the end of
each period are determined based on the future tax consequences attributable to
differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets
and liabilities and their respective tax bases using the tax rate expected to be
in effect when the taxes are actually paid or recovered. The measurement of
deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance.

o.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The Company grants stock options for a fixed number of shares to employees with
an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
The Company accounts for stock option grants in accordance with APB Opinion No.
25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees (and intends to continue to do so)
and, accordingly, recognizes no compensation expense for the stock option
grants.

p.  STOCK SPLIT

On December 3, 1996, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a
four-for-three stock split effected in the form of a 33 1/3% stock dividend
distributed on January 6, 1997 to stockholders of record December 16, 1996. The
split was accomplished through the issuance of common stock. All references to
share and per share amounts in this report have been restated to reflect the
split.

q.  EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK

Primary earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for incremental
shares assumed issued (including incremental shares for 3 1/2% convertible debt)
for dilutive common stock equivalents. Fully diluted earnings per share do not
differ materially from primary earnings per share.

r.  NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" which will require adoption in
fiscal 1997. The Company does not believe the adoption of these statements will
have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.


                                       33
<PAGE>   35
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

3.  INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION

INDUSTRY

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

The Company operates in three major geographic areas. Information on the
Company's geographic operations is set forth in the table below. The predominant
countries comprising European operations are England, France, Germany and
Ireland. The predominant country comprising Asian operations is Japan. For
segment reporting purposes, sales generated by North American operations in the
table include export sales of $159,862,000, $97,446,000 and $96,700,000 in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively. Transfers between geographic areas are based on
market comparables and are consistent with prevailing tax regulations. Operating
income reflects the allocation of corporate expenses of $24,093,000, $23,190,000
and $19,718,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, to the appropriate
geographic area based upon their beneficial and causal relationship to each
area. Corporate identifiable assets consist of cash equivalents, short-term
investments and intangible assets.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION                                              1996               1995               1994
======================================================================================================================
<S>               <C>                                                <C>                <C>                <C>        
SALES             North America, including export.............       $   658,627        $   509,625        $   440,609
                  Europe......................................           364,308            264,401            198,000
                  Asia........................................           170,851            167,520            134,865
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total sales...............................       $ 1,193,786        $   941,546        $   773,474
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========

TRANSFERS         North America, including export.............       $   348,574        $   286,021        $   192,442
BETWEEN           Europe......................................           189,911            141,925            110,801
AREAS             Asia........................................            39,749             30,180             19,603
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total transfers between areas.............       $   578,234        $   458,126        $   322,846
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========

OPERATING         North America, including export.............       $   121,877        $    92,640        $    52,706
INCOME            Europe......................................           103,158             63,627             47,170
                  Asia........................................             2,104              1,500              1,940
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total operating income....................       $   227,139        $   157,767        $   101,816
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========

IDENTIFIABLE      North America, including export.............       $   735,352        $   440,660        $   354,881
ASSETS            Europe......................................           368,682            294,094            176,755
                  Asia........................................           118,627            108,827             95,988
                  Corporate...................................           293,024            158,067            188,247
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total assets..............................       $ 1,515,685        $ 1,001,648        $   815,871
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========
</TABLE>


                                       34
<PAGE>   36
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4.   INVESTMENTS

Investments at November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   1996                      1995
================================================================================
     <S>                        <C>                       <C>       
     WaferTech, LLC             $   42,073                $        -
     CSM                            20,784                    13,980
     Other                           5,525                         -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                $   68,382                $   13,980
================================================================================
</TABLE>

In June 1996, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd., two other companies and several
individual investors for the construction and operation of a semiconductor
fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. The Company received an 18% equity
ownership in the joint venture, known as WaferTech, in return for a $140.4
million investment. The investment is to be made in three installments. The
first installment of $42.1 million was paid in June 1996. A second installment
of $42.1 million was paid in December 1996 and the remaining installment of
$56.2 million is due November 3, 1997. In addition, the Company has an
obligation to guarantee its pro rata share of debt incurred by WaferTech, up to
a maximum for the Company of $45 million. The Company intends to apply the
equity basis of accounting to this investment in WaferTech based on the
Company's ability to exercise significant influence on the operating and
financial policies of the joint venture. The operating results of this joint
venture to date have not been material.

In January 1996, in accordance with a previous agreement, the Company made an
additional equity investment of approximately $7.0 million in Chartered
Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. in Singapore for a total equity
investment of approximately $21.0 million which represents a less than 5%
ownership interest. The Company accounts for this investment under the cost
method.

5.   ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1996           1995           1994
================================================================================
<S>                                    <C>            <C>            <C>      
     Accrued compensation
       and benefits                    $  48,848      $  47,785      $  33,908
     Other                                35,214         26,353         26,313
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total accrued liabilities         $  84,062      $  74,138      $  60,221
================================================================================
</TABLE>

6.   DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES

3 1/2% NOTES

On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000 of
five-year 3-1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semiannual interest payments due on June 1 and December 1. The Notes are
convertible, at the option of the holder, into the Company's common stock at any
time, unless previously redeemed by the Company, at a conversion price of
$20.938 per share, subject to adjustment in certain events. The net proceeds of
the offering were approximately $224 million after payment of the underwriting
discount and expenses of the offering which will be amortized over the term of
the Notes.


                                       35
<PAGE>   37
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

6 5/8% NOTES

On March 11, 1993, the Company completed a public offering of $80 million of
seven-year 6 5/8% Notes due March 1, 2000 with semiannual interest payments due
on March 1 and September 1. The net proceeds of the offering were approximately
$79 million after payment of the underwriting discounts and expenses of the
offering which were deferred and are being amortized to interest expense over
the term of the Notes. Simultaneous with the sale of the Notes, the Company
entered into an interest rate swap and cap agreement for the term of the Notes
having a notional principal amount of $40 million whereby the effective net
interest rate on $40 million of the Notes will be the six-month LIBOR rate (up
to a maximum of 7%) plus 1.4%. For the year ended November 2, 1996, the net
effective interest rate on $40 million of the Notes was 7.3% after giving effect
to the interest rate swap agreement.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LINES OF CREDIT

The Company has a revolving credit agreement with several banks which commits
them to lend up to $60,000,000. The terms of the credit agreement provide that
interest on U.S. dollar borrowings may not exceed the greater of the prime rate
or the federal funds rate plus .50%. Under this agreement, the Company also has
the option to borrow both U.S. dollars and foreign currencies at interest rates
tied to various money market instruments, customarily below the prime rate.
Under the credit agreement, the Company is currently required to pay a fee of
 .125 of 1% per annum on the total amount of the committed facility. All
borrowings under the credit agreement are due no later than October 25, 2000.
Borrowing from banks not participating in the agreement is permitted as long as
the Company maintains certain required financial ratios. The credit agreement
requires the Company to maintain stated minimum net worth and current ratio
levels, plus a stated maximum ratio of total liabilities to net worth. In
addition, the credit agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash dividend
payments declared or made subsequent to November 2, 1996 to an amount not
exceeding $150,000,000 plus 50% of the consolidated net income of the Company
for the period from November 3, 1996 through the end of the Company's then most
recent fiscal quarter. At November 2, 1996 this amount was equal to
$150,000,000. At November 2, 1996, the Company was in compliance with all
covenants under the credit agreement. There are no compensating balance
requirements under the credit agreement. In addition to the credit agreement,
the Company also has various unsecured, uncommitted money market lines of credit
with its credit agreement and other banks which provide for short-term
borrowings.

There were no variable rate U.S. dollar borrowings under the credit agreement or
the uncommitted money market lines of credit during 1996, 1995 and 1994 nor were
there any such borrowings outstanding at November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 or
October 29, 1994. The weighted average interest rates of foreign currency
borrowings under foreign lines of credit were 5.2%, 7.2% and 8.7% during 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively. The weighted average interest rates of foreign
currency borrowings were 7.0%, 6.2% and 7.4% at November 2, 1996, October 28,
1995 and October 29, 1994, respectively. There were $0.2 million of foreign
currency borrowings outstanding at November 2, 1996, which were at prevailing
money market rates for the respective currencies. Borrowings under the Company's
credit agreement and lines of credit are generally due within six months.

Long-term debt, including current maturities, at November 2, 1996, October 28,
1995 and October 29, 1994 consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          1996            1995            1994
================================================================================
<S>                                 <C>             <C>             <C>       
3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated
   Notes due 2000                   $  230,000      $        -      $        -
6 5/8% Notes due 2000                   80,000          80,000          80,000
7.18% term loan                              -               -          20,000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       310,000          80,000         100,000
Less current portion of
   long-term debt                            -               -          20,000
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Long-term debt                      $  310,000      $   80,000      $   80,000
================================================================================
</TABLE>

Aggregate principal payments on long-term debt and short-term borrowings for the
following fiscal years are: 1997-$0.2 million; 2000-$80.0 million; and
2001-$230.0 million.


                                       36
<PAGE>   38
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

7.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under various
operating and capital leases which expire at various dates through 2010. The
lease agreements frequently include renewal and purchase provisions and require
the Company to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.

Total rental expense under operating leases was $11,573,000, $11,243,000 and
$9,985,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under capital
leases and rental payments required under long-term operating leases at November
2, 1996:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          OPERATING                    CAPITAL
FISCAL YEARS                                 LEASES                     LEASES
================================================================================
<C>                                       <C>                        <C>      
1997                                      $   9,941                  $  12,166
1998                                          9,155                     12,126
1999                                          7,279                     12,081
2000                                          6,602                     12,044
2001                                          4,887                      5,332
Later Years                                  13,131                      6,919
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                     $  50,995                  $  60,668
                                          =========
Less amount representing interest                                       (6,042)
                                                                     ---------
Present value of minimum lease payments                              $  54,626
                                                                     =========
</TABLE>

Net property, plant and equipment includes the following for capital leases:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               1996         1995          1994
================================================================================
<S>                                       <C>          <C>           <C>      
Land and buildings                        $       -    $   1,828     $   1,828
Machinery and equipment                      61,793          829           829
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             61,793        2,657         2,657
Less accumulated amortization                (4,198)      (2,639)       (2,468)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net capital leases                        $  57,595    $      18     $     189
================================================================================
</TABLE>

8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LITIGATION

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents was also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. In
addition, in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in
Massachusetts alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of the
Company's patents. Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both
Texas lawsuits and the Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a
royalty-free cross license of certain of the Company's and TI's patents.


                                       37
<PAGE>   39
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

On April 25, 1995, the Company filed with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC
enforcement proceeding on the grounds that further action by the ITC was
unnecessary in light of the Company's settlement with TI. On May 8, 1995, an
Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended determination to the ITC to grant
the Company's motion to terminate the ITC proceeding. The investigative office
of the ITC opposed the motion, claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's
settlement with TI, the Company's alleged violation of the ITC's cease and
desist order warranted the imposition of substantial penalties. On September 11,
1996, the ITC adopted the determination of the Administrative Law Judge to
terminate the enforcement proceeding and referred to the Department of Justice
by letter certain allegations that the Company made false representations in
reports filed with the ITC. The Company advised the Department of Justice that
it has consistently and vigorously denied such allegations during the entire
course of the proceedings before the ITC and the Department of Justice informed
the Company that its statement would be considered in connection with any action
it may take on the matter. The Company is aware of no further activity by the
Department of Justice, and is unable to determine whether further activity will
occur regarding the foregoing matter.

In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, trademarks, personal injury, environmental matters and product
liability. Such litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against
the Company by Sextant Avionique, S.A. in France and the United States and 
Commissariat A. L'energie Atomique C.E.A. in France, claiming that the
Company's accelerometer infringes certain patents. While there can be no        
assurance that the Company will prevail in any of these matters, the Company
does not believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated financial position or consolidated results of
operations. However, an adverse resolution could have an adverse effect on the
Company's consolidated results of operations in the quarter in which these
matters are resolved.

IRISH GRANTS

The Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland has received operating
and capital grants from Ireland's Industrial Development Authority. A liability
to repay up to $21.4 million of the grants received by the Company would arise
in the unlikely event the Company should discontinue its Irish operations prior
to the commitment periods noted in the grant agreements which expire at various
dates through 2006.

WAFER SUPPLY AGREEMENTS

In fiscal 1995, the Company had entered into a supply agreement with its primary
wafer foundry, TSMC. Under this agreement, the Company was to make a series of
advance payments to TSMC aggregating $22.4 million, payable over a three-year
period, in order to secure access to a minimum level of wafer capacity over the
period from 1996 to 1999. However, during fiscal 1996 the arrangement was
modified whereby the Company would maintain a constant deposit of $6.4 million
with TSMC.

In January 1996, the Company entered into an additional agreement with CSM
whereby the Company will provide a total deposit of approximately $20.0 million
to be paid in several installments in 1996 and 1997. In fiscal 1996 $8.0 million
was provided to CSM under this arrangement and is classified in the balance
sheet line item "Deferred Charges and Other Assets." Under the terms of this
agreement, the deposit will guarantee access to certain quantities of sub-micron
wafers through fiscal 2000. If the Company does not purchase the minimum
quantities under the agreement, the deposit will be forfeited for the value of
the wafer shortfall up to the total amount of $20.0 million. At the end of the
agreement term, the Company's deposit will be returned, net of any forfeitures.

9.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

In March 1996, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Articles
of Organization to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock from
300,000,000 to 450,000,000. In December 1996, the Board of Directors authorized
an amendment to the Company's Articles of Organization to increase the
authorized number of shares of common stock from 450,000,000 to 600,000,000
subject to stockholder approval in March 1997.


                                       38
<PAGE>   40
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

STOCK PLANS

The 1988 Stock Option Plan provides for the issuance of nonstatutory and
incentive stock options to purchase up to 29,900,000 shares of common stock.
Under this plan, options may be granted to key employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries at a price not less than 100% of the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the date of grant. The Company's 1980 Stock Option Plan was
terminated upon adoption of the 1988 Stock Option Plan; however, options to
purchase common stock remain outstanding under this plan.

While the Company may grant options to employees which become exercisable at
different times or within different periods, the Company has generally granted
options to employees which are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual
installments of 33 1/3% each on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the
date of grant.

Under the 1994 Director Stock Option Plan, each nonemployee director is granted
annually for four years a nonstatutory option to purchase 10,500 shares of
common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. A total of 400,000 shares of common stock may be issued under this plan.
These options are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33
1/3% each on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The
Company also has options outstanding under the 1992 Director Option Plan and the
1989 Director Stock Option Plan. Options granted under these plans are
exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33 1/3% each on the
third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.

Transactions under the Company's stock option plans are summarized in the table
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
                                                            SHARES      --------------------------------
                                                         AVAILABLE                          OPTION PRICE   AGGREGATE
STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY                                    FOR GRANT      NUMBER                 PER SHARE       PRICE
=====================================================================================================================
<S>                                                      <C>            <C>          <C>                   <C>
Balance, October 30, 1993                                   11,617      10,085       $  1.96 to $  8.04    $  30,067
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options granted                                             (4,121)      4,121       $  7.04 to $ 10.00       30,482
Options exercised                                                -      (1,365)      $  1.96 to $  6.13       (4,250)
Options canceled (1)                                           247        (248)      $  1.96 to $  8.58         (844)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 29, 1994                                    7,743      12,593       $  1.96 to $ 10.00       55,455
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares authorized for 1994 Director Stock Option Plan          400           -                 -                   -
Options granted                                             (3,550)      3,550       $ 10.25 to $ 17.57       36,887
Options exercised                                                -      (1,416)      $  1.96 to $  5.25       (3,960)
Options canceled (1)                                           495        (524)      $  1.96 to $ 10.25       (2,989)
Shares canceled upon termination of
  1992 Director Option Plan                                    (91)          -                 -                   -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 28, 1995                                    4,997      14,203       $  1.96 to $ 17.57       85,393
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Additional shares authorized for 1988 Stock Option Plan      9,200           -          -          -               -
Options granted                                             (3,881)      3,901       $ 14.63 to $ 20.25       63,286
Options exercised                                                       (2,072)      $  1.96 to $ 10.25       (5,808)
Options canceled (1)                                           451        (454)      $  1.96 to $ 20.25       (4,706)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, November 2, 1996                                   10,767      15,578       $  1.96 to $ 20.25    $ 138,165
=====================================================================================================================
Options exercisable at November 2, 1996                                  3,588       $  1.96 to $ 11.09    $  10,853
=====================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1) Options canceled which were originally issued from the 1988 Stock Option
    Plan are available for subsequent grants. The remaining options canceled in
    1996, 1995 and 1994 were issued from the 1980 Stock Option and 1992 Director
    Option Plans under which no further options will be granted.

The Company has a stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to
purchase, through payroll deductions, shares of the Company's common stock at
85% of the fair market value at specified dates. Employees purchased 664,200
shares in 1996 (835,700 and 1,047,600 in 1995 and 1994, respectively) for $9.0
million ($6.9 million and $6.0 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively). At
November 2, 1996, 1,543,400 common shares remained available for issuance under
the stock purchase plan.


                                       39
<PAGE>   41
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan, a maximum of 2,700,000 shares of common
stock may be awarded by the Company to key employees for nominal consideration.
This plan succeeded the Company's 1978 Restricted Stock Plan which provided for
the issuance of up to 7,372,800 shares of common stock. Shares awarded from both
plans are restricted as to transfer, usually for a period of five years and,
under certain conditions, may be subject to repurchase by the Company at the
original purchase price per share. Shares awarded under the Company's restricted
stock plans, net of cancellations, for 1996, 1995 and 1994 were 212,000, 20,000
and 471,000, respectively. The fair market value of the shares at the date of
award was accounted for as deferred compensation and is being amortized over the
restricted period. During 1996, 1995 and 1994, $1,949,000, $1,672,000 and
$1,851,000, respectively, of such compensation was charged to expense. At
November 2, 1996, there were 983,000 shares of common stock available for
issuance under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan.


As of November 2, 1996, a total of 39,871,925 common shares were reserved for
issuance under the Company's stock plans.

PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has 500,000 authorized shares of $1.00 par value Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is authorized to fix designations, relative rights,
preferences and limitations on the preferred stock at the time of issuance.

COMMON STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

In 1988, the Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan which was
amended in 1989. Pursuant to the Stockholder Rights Plan, each share of common
stock has an associated right. Under certain circumstances, each right entitles
the holder to purchase from the Company one share of common stock at an exercise
price of $20.00 per share, subject to adjustment.

The rights are not exercisable and cannot be transferred separately from the
common stock until ten days after a person acquires 20% or more or makes a
tender offer for 30% or more of the Company's common stock. If, after the rights
become exercisable, (i) any person becomes the owner of 20% or more of the
Company's common stock, or (ii) the Company is the surviving entity in a merger
with a 20% or more stockholder, or (iii) a 20% or more stockholder engages in
certain "self-dealing" transactions with the Company, each right not owned by
such person will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right's exercise price,
common stock having a value of two times the exercise price of the right. In
addition, if the Company is either (i) acquired in a merger or other business
combination in which the Company is not the surviving entity, or (ii) sells or
transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another party, each
right will entitle its holder to purchase, upon exercise, common stock of the
acquiring Company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the
right.

The rights have certain anti-takeover effects, in that they would cause
substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire a significant
interest in the Company on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. The
rights expire on February 12, 1998 but may be redeemed by the Company for $.0067
per right at any time prior to the tenth day following a person's acquisition of
20% or more of the Company's common stock. So long as the rights are not
separately transferable, the Company will issue one right with each new share of
common stock issued.


                                       40
<PAGE>   42
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10.  RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company and its subsidiaries have various savings and retirement plans
covering substantially all employees. The Company maintains a defined
contribution plan for the benefit of its eligible United States employees. This
plan provides for Company contributions of up to 5% of each participant's total
eligible compensation. In addition, the Company contributed an amount equal to
each participant's contribution, if any, up to a maximum of 2% of each
participant's total eligible compensation. During fiscal 1996, the Company's
contributions increased to match an additional 50% of employee contributions
between 2% and 4% of total eligible compensation. The Company also has various
defined benefit pension and other retirement plans for certain foreign employees
that are consistent with local statutes and practices. The total expense related
to all of the Company's retirement plans in 1996, 1995 and 1994 was $16.8
million, $14.0 million and $12.6 million, respectively, which primarily consists
of costs related to the domestic defined contribution plan. Also included in
total expense is pension expense related to foreign defined benefit plans of
$3.3 million for 1996, $2.5 million for 1995 and $2.5 million for 1994. Summary
data related to these foreign plans at November 2, 1996 is as follows:
accumulated benefit obligation, substantially vested, of $24.3 million;
projected benefit obligation of $40.7 million; plan assets at fair value of
$38.2 million; discount rates ranging from 4% to 15%; compensation increase
rates ranging from 3% to 12% and expected rate of return on assets ranging from
4% to 15%.

11.  INCOME TAXES

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory rates to
income tax expense is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            LIABILITY METHOD
                                                            ----------------
                                                      1996          1995          1994
=======================================================================================
<S>                                              <C>           <C>           <C>  
U.S. federal statutory tax rate                      35.0%         35.0%         35.0%
Income tax provision reconciliation:
   Tax at statutory rate                         $ 80,759      $ 55,803      $ 33,919
   Irish income subject to lower tax rate         (17,813)      (13,436)       (7,299)
   Change in valuation allowance                   (2,641)           --        (4,265)
   State income taxes, net of federal benefit       1,338         1,833         1,076
   Research and development tax credits            (1,300)         (325)       (1,074)
   Foreign Sales Corporation                       (3,575)       (3,200)         (731)
   Amortization of goodwill                           506           503           503
   Net foreign tax in excess of (less than)
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate                  957        (1,076)          247
   Other, net                                         608            63            39
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total income tax provision                  $ 58,839      $ 40,165      $ 22,415
=======================================================================================
</TABLE>

For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes includes the
following components:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1996         1995           1994
=======================================================================================
<S>                                             <C>            <C>              <C>     
Pretax income:
   Domestic                                     $ 101,760      $ 76,230         $35,621
   Foreign                                        128,980        83,205          61,290
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                $ 230,740      $159,435         $96,911
=======================================================================================

</TABLE>


                                       41
<PAGE>   43
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             1996            1995           1994
================================================================================
<S>                                    <C>              <C>            <C>      
Current:
   Federal                             $   34,278       $  32,860      $  18,479
   Foreign                                 15,737          16,734         10,576
   State                                    2,100           2,820          1,665
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current                          $   52,115       $  52,414      $  30,720
================================================================================

Deferred (prepaid):
   Federal                             $    1,318       $ (10,887)     $  (7,601)
   Foreign                                  5,406          (1,362)          (704)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred (prepaid)               $    6,724       $ (12,249)     $  (8,305)
================================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company's practice is to reinvest indefinitely the earnings of certain
international subsidiaries. Accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been provided
for approximately $366,410,000 of unremitted earnings of international
subsidiaries.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance to reflect the estimated amount
of deferred tax assets that may not be realized due to the expiration for book
and tax capital loses. For tax purposes, the Company has a capital tax loss
carryforward of approximately $6,335,000 expiring through the year 2,000,
principally in 1997. The balance for the valuation allowance for deferred assets
was $7.4 million at November 2, 1996 and $10.0 million at both October 28, 1995
and October 29, 1994.

The significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the fiscal years ended November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29,
1994 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         1996            1995           1994
============================================================================================================
<S>                                                                 <C>             <C>            <C>      
Deferred tax assets:
   Inventory reserves                                               $  20,061       $  18,309      $  12,261
   Capital loss carryover                                               7,394           8,513          8,513
   Deferred income on shipments to domestic distributors               12,518           7,898          5,254
   Reserves for employee benefits                                       3,476           3,780          2,890
   Restricted stock                                                     1,893           2,031          2,123
   Alternative Minimum Tax carryover                                        -               -          1,764
   Intercompany profits in foreign inventories                          3,965           5,335          1,709
   Reserve for bad debts                                                2,242           1,171          1,650
   Foreign tax credits                                                    381           2,301          1,522
   Other                                                                5,039           6,351          3,314
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total gross deferred tax assets                                   56,969          55,689         41,000
     Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets                       (7,394)        (10,035)       (10,035)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total deferred tax assets                                    $  49,575       $  45,654      $  30,965
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Depreciation                                                     $ (21,688)      $ (11,043)     $  (8,603)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total gross deferred liabilities                               $ (21,688)      $ (11,043)     $  (8,603)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Net deferred tax assets                                      $  27,887       $  34,611      $  22,362
============================================================================================================
</TABLE>


                                       42

<PAGE>   44
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


Quarterly financial information for fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995 (thousands of
dollars except as noted):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     4Q96       3Q96       2Q96       1Q96       4Q95       3Q95       2Q95       1Q95
=======================================================================================================================
<S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>    
Net sales                         304,647    305,042    303,328    280,769    257,194    246,301    230,046    208,005
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cost of sales                     152,121    152,331    150,362    138,219    126,591    121,183    113,652    103,145
Gross margin                      152,526    152,711    152,966    142,550    130,603    125,118    116,394    104,860
   % of sales                          50%        50%        50%        51%        51%        51%        51%        50%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses:
   Research and development        46,498     45,569     44,848     40,857     35,714     35,035     33,266     30,250
   Selling, marketing, general
     and administrative            48,460     48,562     50,017     48,803     48,306     47,374     45,592     43,671
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating expenses           94,958     94,131     94,865     89,660     84,020     82,409     78,858     73,921
   % of sales                          31%        31%        31%        32%        33%        33%        34%        36%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                   57,568     58,580     58,101     52,890     46,583     42,709     37,536     30,939
   % of sales                          19%        19%        19%        19%        18%        17%        16%        15%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nonoperating expenses (income):
   Interest expense                 3,155      3,266      3,040      1,828        959        938      1,022      1,282
   Interest income                 (4,141)    (3,688)    (4,807)    (3,899)    (2,200)    (1,721)    (1,991)    (2,191)
   Other                              626       (181)       417        783        208        562        732        732
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total nonoperating
   income                            (360)      (603)    (1,350)    (1,288)    (1,033)      (221)      (237)      (177)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes         57,928     59,183     59,451     54,178     47,616     42,930     37,773     31,116
   % of sales                          19%        19%        20%        19%        19%        17%        16%        15%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes         13,908     15,387     15,458     14,086     12,482     11,149      9,066      7,468
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                         44,020     43,796     43,993     40,092     35,134     31,781     28,707     23,648
   % of sales                          14%        14%        15%        14%        14%        13%        12%        11%
   Per share                          .26        .26        .26        .25        .22        .20        .18        .15
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares used to compute
   earnings per share
   (in thousands)                 174,082    172,921    172,576    165,576    160,482    159,698    157,820    156,858
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


                                       43

<PAGE>   45
ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The response to this item is contained in part under the caption "EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY" in Part I hereof, and the remainder is contained in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
March 11, 1997 (the "1997 Proxy Statement") under the caption "Election of
Directors" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Severance and Other Agreements," and is incorporated herein by reference.
Information relating to a delinquent filing of a Form 4 by an Executive Officer
of the Company is contained in the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement under the
caption "Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1997 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Transactions with Directors," and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                       44
<PAGE>   46
                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      The following consolidated financial statements are included in Item 8:

         -        Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended November
                    2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
         -        Consolidated Balance Sheets as of November 2, 1996, October
                    28, 1995 and October 29, 1994
         -        Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years
                    ended November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 
                    1994     
         -        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
                    November 2, 1996, October 28, 1995 and October 29, 1994

(a) 2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

      The following consolidated financial statement schedules are included in
      Item 14(d):

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

      All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
      not present or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
      the schedule, or because the information required is included in the
      consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

(a) 3.  LISTING OF EXHIBITS

      EXHIBIT
        NO.                      DESCRIPTION
      -------                    -----------

         3-1      Restated Articles of Organization of Analog Devices, Inc., as
                  amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-8 filed
                  on May 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

         3-2      By-laws of Analog Devices, Inc. as amended, filed as an
                  exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

         4-1      Rights Agreement, as amended, between Analog Devices, Inc. and
                  The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent, filed as
                  an exhibit to a Form 8 filed on June 27, 1989 amending the
                  Registration Statement on Form 8-A relating to Common Stock
                  Purchase Rights, and incorporated herein by reference.

         4-2      Indenture dated as of March 1, 1993 between Analog Devices,
                  Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston, filed as an
                  exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

         4-3      Indenture dated as of December 18, 1995 between Analog
                  Devices, Inc. and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as
                  Trustee, filed as exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended October 28, 1995 and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

*        4-4      Analog Devices, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as
                  an exhibit to a Form S-8 filed on December 8, 1995 and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

*        10-1     Bonus Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed herewith.


                                       45

<PAGE>   47
      EXHIBIT
        NO.                           DESCRIPTION
      -------                         -----------

*        10-2     1991 Restricted Stock Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed
                  herewith.

*        10-3     1980 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as
                  amended, filed herewith.

*        10-4     1988 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as
                  amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein
                  by reference.

*        10-5     1989 Director Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc.,
                  as amended, filed herewith.

*        10-6     1992 Director Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed
                  as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

*        10-7     1994 Director Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc.,
                  filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

         10-8     Lease agreement dated February 13, 1970 between Analog
                  Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Campanelli Investment Trust,
                  relating to the premises at 30 Perwal Street, Westwood,
                  Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994 and incorporated
                  herein by reference. 

         10-9     Amended and restated lease agreement dated May 1, 1992 between
                  Analog Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Everett Street Trust
                  relating to the premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood,
                  Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K
                  for the fiscal year ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

         10-10    Guaranty dated as of May 1, 1994 between Analog Devices, Inc.
                  and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company relating to the
                  premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as
                  an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended April 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10-11    Letter Agreement dated as of May 18, 1994 between Analog
                  Devices, Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company relating
                  to the premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts,
                  filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                  quarter ended April 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

         10-12    Reimbursement Agreement dated May 18, 1992 between Analog
                  Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Everett Street Trust, filed
                  as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10-13    Lease agreement dated August 8, 1990 between Precision
                  Monolithics, Inc. and Bourns, Inc. relating to the premises at
                  1525 Comstock Road, Santa Clara, California, filed herewith.

         10-14    Lease amendment dated May 1, 1996 to the Lease Agreement dated
                  August 8, 1990 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Bourns, Inc.,
                  relating to premises located at 1525 Comstock Road, Santa
                  Clara, California, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 1996 and incorporated
                  herein by reference.


                                       46
<PAGE>   48
        EXHIBIT
          NO.                           DESCRIPTION
        -------                         -----------

         10-15    Lease agreement dated August 8, 1990, as amended, between
                  Precision Monolithics, Inc. and Bourns, Inc. relating to the
                  premises at 1500 Space Park Drive, Santa Clara, California,
                  filed herewith.

         10-16    Lease amendment dated May 1, 1996 to the Lease Agreement dated
                  August 8, 1990 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Bourns, Inc.,
                  relating to premises located at 1500 Space Park Drive, Santa
                  Clara, California, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 1996 and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

         10-17    Credit Agreement dated as of March 12, 1993 among Analog
                  Devices, Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
                  Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association,
                  Continental Bank, N.A., The First National Bank of Boston and
                  Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Agent, filed as
                  an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
                  ended May 1, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10-18    Amendment No. 1 dated as of May 18, 1993 to the Company's
                  Credit Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to
                  the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31,
                  1993 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10-19    Amendment No. 2 dated as of September 8, 1994 to the Company's
                  Credit Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to
                  the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29,
                  1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

         10-20    Amendment No. 3 dated as of October 25, 1996 to the Company's
                  Credit Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed herewith.

         10-21    Term loan agreement dated as of November 12, 1991 between
                  Analog Devices, Inc. and The First National Bank of Boston,
                  filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
                  year ended November 2, 1991 and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

*        10-22    Form of Employee Retention Agreement, as amended, filed
                  as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                  ended October 31, 1992 and incorporated herein by reference.

*        10-23    Employee Change in Control Severance Policy of Analog
                  Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the
                  Company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

*        10-24    Senior Management Change in Control Severance Policy of
                  Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the
                  Company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1993 and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

*        10-25    Description of Consulting Arrangement between Analog
                  Devices, Inc. and John L. Doyle, filed herewith.

*        10-26    Letter agreement between Analog Devices, Inc. and Jerald
                  G. Fishman dated December 15, 1994 relating to acceleration of
                  stock options and restricted stock awards upon termination of
                  employment, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for
                  the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein
                  by reference.

**       10-27    Option Agreement dated as of May 16, 1995 between Analog
                  Devices B.V. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company,
                  Ltd., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
                  fiscal quarter ended July 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by
                  reference.


                                       47
<PAGE>   49
        EXHIBIT
          NO.                           DESCRIPTION
        -------                         -----------

**       10-28    Wafer Production Agreement dated as of May 16, 1995
                  between Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd. and
                  Analog Devices B.V., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 29, 1995 and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

         10-29    Lease Agreement dated June 16, 1995 between Analog Devices,
                  Inc. and Ferrari Brothers, relating to the premises at 610
                  Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale, California, filed herewith.

         10-30    Lease amendment dated March 1, 1996 to the Lease Agreement
                  dated June 16, 1995 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Ferrari
                  Brothers, relating to premises located at 610 Weddell Drive,
                  Sunnyvale, California, filed as an exhibit to the Company's
                  Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 1996 and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

**       10-31    Manufacturing Agreement dated as of March 17, 1995
                  between Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte. Ltd. and
                  Analog Devices B.V., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form
                  10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended February 3, 1996 and
                  incorporated herein by reference.

**       10-32    Deposit Agreement dated January 30, 1996 between
                  Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte. Ltd. and Analog
                  Devices B.V., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q
                  for the fiscal quarter ended February 3, 1996 and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

         10-33    Lease Agreement dated February 8, 1996 between Analog Devices,
                  Inc. and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, relating to
                  premises located at 21 Osborn Street, Cambridge,
                  Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q
                  for the fiscal quarter ended February 3, 1996 and incorporated
                  herein by reference.

**       10-34    Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement
                  of WaferTech, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, dated
                  as of August 9, 1996. Filed as Exhibit 10.47 to the Form 10-Q
                  of Altera Corporation (File No. 0-16617) for the fiscal
                  quarter ended June 30, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

**       10-35    Purchase Agreement by and between Taiwan Semiconductor
                  Manufacturing Co., Ltd., as seller and Analog Devices, Inc.,
                  Altera Corporation and Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc., as
                  buyers dated as of June 25, 1996. Filed as Exhibit 10.48 to
                  the Form 10-Q of Altera Corporation (File No. 0-16617) for the
                  fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                  reference.

 *       10-36    Amendment No. 1 dated December 3, 1996 to the Analog Devices,
                  Inc. Trust Agreement for Deferred Compensation Plan, filed 
                  herewith.

         11-1     Computation of Earnings Per Share

         21       Subsidiaries of the Company, filed herewith.

         23       Consent of Ernst & Young LLP filed herewith.

         27       Financial Data Schedule

- ----------
*        Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements required to
         be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

**       Confidential treatment has been granted as to certain portions of these
         Exhibits.


(b)      REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      The Company filed no reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange
      Commission during the fiscal quarter ended November 2, 1996.


                                       48
<PAGE>   50
                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
 (Registrant)

By:   /s/  Jerald G. Fishman                  By:   /s/  Joseph E. McDonough
      -----------------------------                 ---------------------------
      Jerald G. Fishman                             Joseph E. McDonough
      President                                     Vice President-Finance
      Chief Executive Officer                       and Chief Financial Officer
      and Director                                  (Principal Financial and
      (Principal Executive Officer)                 Accounting Officer)


Date: January 29, 1997                        Date: January 29, 1997
     ------------------------------                 ---------------------------


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
           NAME                        TITLE                    DATE
           ----                        -----                    ----
<S>                            <C>                        <C> 
/s/   Ray Stata                Chairman of the Board      January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      Ray Stata

/s/   Jerald G. Fishman             President,            January 29, 1997
- -------------------------      Chief Executive Officer   
      Jerald G. Fishman             and Director      
                               

/s/   John L. Doyle                  Director             January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      John L. Doyle

/s/   Samuel H. Fuller               Director             January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      Samuel H. Fuller

/s/   Philip L. Lowe                 Director             January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      Philip L. Lowe

/s/   Gordon C. McKeague             Director             January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      Gordon C. McKeague

/s/   Joel Moses                     Director             January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      Joel Moses

/s/   Lester C. Thurow               Director             January 29, 1997
- -------------------------                                
      Lester C. Thurow
</TABLE>


                                       49
<PAGE>   51
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                           YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 1996
                                   ITEM 14(d)
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


                                       50
<PAGE>   52
                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
       YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 2, 1996, OCTOBER 28, 1995 AND OCTOBER 29, 1994
                                   (THOUSANDS)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             BALANCE AT            ADDITION                               BALANCE AT
                                            BEGINNING OF          CHARGED TO                                END OF
DESCRIPTION                                    PERIOD               EXPENSE             DEDUCTIONS          PERIOD
- -----------                                    ------               -------             ----------          ------
<S>                                         <C>                   <C>                   <C>               <C>      
INVENTORY RESERVE:

Year ended October 29, 1994                  $   1,797            $   1,281             $       -          $   3,078
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
Year ended October 28, 1995                  $   3,078            $   1,399             $       -          $   4,477
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
Year ended November 2, 1996                  $   4,477            $   6,041             $       -          $  10,518
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========


ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS:

Year ended October 29, 1994                  $   2,395            $   4,477             $     469          $   6,403
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
Year ended October 28, 1995                  $   6,403            $     435             $   2,399          $   4,439
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
Year ended November 2, 1996                  $   4,439            $   3,499             $     564          $   7,374
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
</TABLE>


                                       51


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>BONUS PLAN OF ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.1

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                             [Logo] ANALOG
                                    DEVICES


                                FY97 BONUS PLAN

                         SHARING THE COMPANY'S SUCCESS

                              [NEW ANALOG GRAPHIC]

Analog Devices is committed to sharing its success with the people who make it
possible - our employees. The aim of the Bonus Plan is to encourage
participation by all of us in achieving company goals and to share the rewards
of our success.

                                        Ray Stata        Jerry Fishman
                                        Chairman         President


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEES
<PAGE>   2
PURPOSE OF THE BONUS PLAN

The intent of ADI's Corporate Bonus Plan is to encourage employees to work
together toward the company-wide goal of improved financial performance.
Improvement in the Company's performance, which can be influenced by all
employees, results in a reward for both employees and shareholders alike.

MEASURING ANALOG'S SUCCESS

For the past five years, Operating Profit Before Taxes (OPBT) has been used as
the principal measure of success for ADI. The goal over the last few years was
to improve overall profitability to competitive levels, In FY 1996, we achieved
this multi-year goal.

For FY 1997 the Corporate Bonus Plan is changing, to focus our attention on
both profitability and sales growth. In order for ADI to become a multi-billion
dollar company, rapid growth as well as sustained profitability will both be
critical success factors. The FY97 Bonus payment formula has been modified to
reflect that goal by including measures for both of these success factors.

BONUS PAYMENT FORMULA

For FY97, the payout factor for each Bonus Period will be determined using two
measures of company performance: growth in sales from last year, and OPBT for
the bonus period. One-half of the Bonus payout factor will be driven by sales
growth over the same period in FY96, and one-half by Operating Profit in the
Bonus Period.

For bonus purposes, Bonus Period 1 consists of Q1 and Q2, and Bonus Period 2
consists of Q3 and Q4. A bonus will be paid semiannually, in June and December,
if Analog's performance is sufficient to earn a bonus.

The payout factor is determined by combining the sales growth rate and the OPBT
level for the period. For example, if sales growth for Q1/Q2 were 15% and OPBT
20%, then the combined payout factor for the period would be 1.75 times target.

As a key part of changing the Bonus Plan in FY97, the maximum payout factor has
been increased from 2.0 times the bonus target to 2.5 times target, thus
increasing the maximum level of bonus that could be achieved. The reason for
increasing this payout "cap" is the recognition that higher levels of sales
growth and profitability provide an opportunity to share more rewards with
employees. This new "cap" allows employees to potentially earn a larger bonus
than previously, if we are successful in meeting our growth and profitability
goals. 

SETTING EXPECTATIONS

For FY94, FY95, and FY96, the annual bonus payout factors were 1.32, 1.67, and
1.9 times target, respectively. Given the continuing challenges of our business
environment, it is very possible that FY97 bonus payments will not match those
paid for FY96. In particular, a first half FY97 bonus payment would very likely
be less than that paid for the second half of FY96. If sales growth occurs in
the range of 5% to 10% and OPBT levels remain in the 15% to 20% range, the
Bonus payout factor will be between 1.0 and 1.5 times target. As always, no one
should plan on receiving a bonus payment until it is actually announced.

YOUR BONUS TARGET

Your ADI Bonus Target is based upon your job grade level. This target
represents a percentage of your regular earnings paid during the bonus period.
The bonus targets are:

                         BONUS                    POTENTIAL
GRADE LEVEL             TARGET                      RANGE

Non-Exempt                4%                       0 - 10%
E02 - E06                 4%                       0 - 10%
E07 - E10                 6%                       0 - 15%
E11 - E14                15%                       0 - 38%
E15 - E18                20%                       0 - 50%

ADI's bonus targets are developed through competitive analysis of pay practices
among our industry competitors.
<PAGE>   3
YOUR BONUS PAYMENT
At the end of each bonus period, a payout factor will be computed from the
payout model based upon OPBT and growth for the period. When ADI's operating
results warrant it, you will receive a bonus payment. The payment is calculated
by multiplying your accumulated regular earnings paid in the bonus period by
the bonus target that corresponds to your job grade level in effect at the end
of the bonus period. The product of that calculation is then multiplied by the
payment factor to provide the gross bonus payment amount.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    EXAMPLE

Accumulated regular earnings for the Bonus Period                $15,000

Bonus target percent                                                   4%

Payout factor for the Bonus Period                                  1.50

Gross bonus (before tax) payment                              

$15,000 x 4% x 1.50 = $900.00

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Included in regular earnings are the following pay categories:

        - Base pay                      - Holiday pay
        - Shift differential            - Bereavement pay
        - Sick pay                      - Jury duty pay
        - Vacation pay                  - Alternative work schedule pay

EXCLUDED from the Bonus Plan are:

        - Overtime pay
        - Bonus payments received from a previous bonus period
        - Other payments which are taxable but not considered regular earnings.

WHO'S ELIGIBLE?
Most ADI employees participate in the Bonus Plan. New employees are immediately
eligible to participate in the Plan with no waiting period.

The following situations may EXCLUDE an employee from Bonus payment 
eligibility:

        - Employee is already covered under a field sales, field applications
          engineering or other incentive program
        - Employee terminates employment prior to the last day of the bonus 
          period
        - Employee receives a Marginal performance rating during the bonus 
          period
        - Employee receives a final written warning during the bonus period
        - Co-op student or intern
        - Temporary employee

ADI BONUS: A PART OF TOTAL COMPENSATION
The ADI Bonus Plan is only one compensation package, along with base pay/merit
increase and benefits programs. The Bonus program, together with the base
pay/merit increase program, make up your total cash compensation. The bonus is
the most variable component of your total package.

ADI's total cash compensation strategy is to pay at above average pay levels
for above average performance. This strategy relates to both individual and
company performance.

Our base pay/merit increase and benefits programs are designed to maintain
individual base pay rates and benefits at a level competitive with those of
other employers. Then, when company performance warrants a bonus payment, the
additional money it provides moves your total cash compensation to a higher 
level.


<PAGE>   4
                             WE CAN HAVE AN IMPACT

Everyone can influence sales growth and profitability by improving customer
satisfaction, minimizing waste and controlling expenses. Each person's
initiative is important. TQM can provide tools for identifying and
implementing important improvements. 

There are two ways to increase OPBT - by increasing sales revenues and/or
decreasing expenses. Increasing sales revenues is not just the job of the sales
force.

Delivering well-designed, high-quality products on time is a company-wide
effort. Similarly, everyone can play a role in reducing expenses.

Working together, we can have an impact - whether it's improving processes to
increase customer satisfaction or finding ways to cut waste and reduce
expenses. The daily improvements we can make ultimately add up to affect the
"bottom line".

                           QUESTIONS ABOUT THE BONUS

WHY WAS THE BONUS PAYOUT FORMULA CHANGED?
Since the Bonus Plan began in FY92 the goal has been to increase ADI's
profitability. Now that we have achieved this important goal, it's time to turn
our attention to additional performance measures that will help focus the
future competitive position of the company.

WHEN WILL I RECEIVE MY BONUS PAYMENT?
Bonus checks are issued approximately six weeks after the close of the bonus
period and the formal announcement of a bonus payment for the period.

WILL MY BONUS PAYMENTS BE ELIGIBLE FOR TIP OR THE EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN?
If you currently contribute to TIP, deductions will be taken out from your
bonus payments. Bonus payments will also be included in the calculation of the
company contributions to that program. Deductions are not taken for the ESPP.

WHAT IF MY JOB GRADE AND BONUS TARGET CHANGE DURING THE BONUS PERIOD?
Your bonus payment will be based on the job grade effective at the end of the
bonus period.

WHAT IF I CHANGE WORK SHIFTS?
Because shift differential paid during the bonus period is included as part of
your earnings for the bonus calculation, your bonus payment will already take
into consideration any shift differential earnings that you may have for the
period. 

WHAT IF I TRANSFER BUSINESS UNITS OR CHANGE STATUS BETWEEN FULL-TIME AND
PART-TIME? 
If you transfer between business units, your earnings records transfer with you.
since your bonus payment is based on your accumulated paid earnings for the
bonus period, your bonus calculation will take into account any change in
reporting organization or change in status (such as part-time to full-time or
full-time to part-time).

WHAT IF I AM ON A LEAVE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY FOR PART OF THE BONUS PERIOD?
The bonus is paid based on your earnings while actively at work during the
period (not on short-term disability, long-term disability or other leave of
absence). So, any pay received during your leave of absence will be excluded
from your accumulated paid earnings for bonus calculation purposes.

This plan brochure provides a summary of the FY97 Bonus Plan. If you need
further information, ask your supervisor or Human Resources consultant. Analog
Devices reserves the right to modify this Plan from time to time in its sole
discretion. 

[ANALOG DEVICES Logo]  
THREE TECHNOLOGY WAY * P.O. BOX 9106 * NORWOOD, MA 02062-9106 
* TEL: 617-329-4700

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>1991 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    Exhibit 10-2
                                                                    ------------


                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                          1991 RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN


1.  PURPOSE.

        The purpose of the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan (the "Plan") is to secure
for Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Company") and its shareholders the benefits
arising from capital stock ownership by key employees of the Company who are
expected to contribute to the Company's future growth and success. Except where
the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" shall include any
subsidiaries of the Company. For purposes of the Plan, the term "subsidiary"
means a corporation fifty percent (50%) or more of whose voting securities are
directly or indirectly owned by the Company. A copy of the Plan is available
from the Treasurer's Department. For more information about the Plan, and its
administrators, please contact the Director of Corporate Communications, One
Technology Way, P.O. Box 9106, Norwood, MA 02062-9106, telephone (617)
329-4700.

2.  ADMINISTRATION AND AWARDS.

        (a) Administration. Awards (as defined below) granted pursuant to the
Plan shall be authorized by action of the Board of Directors of the Company and
shall meet the requirements of Section 5 of the Plan. The Plan shall be
administered by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose construction and
interpretation of the terms and provisions of the Plan shall be final and
conclusive. The Board of Directors may in its sole discretion make awards for
the purchase of shares of the Company's common stock, $.16 2/3 par value per
share ("Common Stock"), pursuant to Section 5. The Board shall have authority,
subject to the express provisions of the Plan, to construe the respective
Awards, and the Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations
relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of the respective
Awards, which need not be identical, and to make all other determinations in
the judgment of the Board of Directors necessary or desirable for the
administration of the Plan. The Board of Directors may correct any defect or
supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award
in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into
effect and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency. No director
or person acting pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of Directors
shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith. The Board
of Directors may, to the full extent permitted by or consistent with law or
regulation (including without limitation Rule 16b-3 of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 or any successor rule ("Rule 16b-3")), delegate any or all of its
powers under the Plan to a committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Board
of Directors, and if the Committee is so


<PAGE>   2



appointed all references to the Board of Directors in the Plan shall mean and
relate to such Committee. In addition, to the full extent permitted by or
consistent with law or regulation (including without limitation Rule 16b-3), the
Board of Directors or such Committee may delegate authority to the President of
the Company to make Awards to employees of the Company who are not officers or
directors of the Company.

        (b) Grant of Awards to Directors. The selection of a director as a
participant and the size of an Award to such director shall be determined by
the Board of Directors, of which a majority, as well as a majority of the
directors acting in the matter, shall be "disinterested persons" (as
hereinafter defined). For the purposes of the Plan, a director shall be deemed
to be "disinterested" only if such person qualifies as a "disinterested person"
within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 as such term is interpreted from time to time.

3.  ELIGIBILITY.

        Awards under the Plan may be made only to persons who are determined by
the Board of Directors to be key employees of the Company. The term "employees"
shall include officers and directors who are full-time employees of the Company
as well as other full-time employees of the Company.

4.  STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN.

        Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 below, the maximum
number of shares of Common Stock of the Company which may be issued and sold
under the Plan is 700,000 shares. Such shares may be (i) authorized and
unissued shares or (ii) issued and thereafter acquired by the Company or (iii)
subject to the requirements of 16b-3, tendered back to the Company or withheld
by the Company for tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 12. Any
shares of Common Stock subject to an Award which are not purchased by the
recipient of the Award, or which are purchased by the recipient of the Award
but later repurchased by the Company in accordance with the terms of the Award
or the Plan, shall again be available for purposes of the Plan.

5.  AWARDS.

        (a) Restricted Stock Award. A restricted stock award ("Award") shall
consist of the sale and issuance by the Company of shares of Common Stock, and
purchase by the recipient of such shares, subject to the terms, conditions and
restrictions described in the document evidencing the Award and in this Plan.

        (b) Execution of Award. As a condition to an Award under the Plan, each
recipient of an Award shall execute an agreement in such form, which may differ

                                     -2-

<PAGE>   3



among recipients, as shall be specified by the Board of Directors at the time of
such Award.

        (c) Price. The Board of Directors shall determine the price, if any, at
which shares of Common Stock shall be awarded to recipients under the Plan. The
purchase price, if any, may vary among the participants. The Board of Directors
may, in its discretion, issue shares under the Plan without payment of any cash
purchase price by the recipients or issue shares at a purchase price below the
then fair market value. If a purchase price is required to be paid, it shall be
paid in cash or by check payable to the order of the Company at the time that
the Award is accepted by the recipient.

        (d) Number of Shares. The Award shall specify the number of shares of
Common Stock granted thereunder.

        (e) Ownership of Shares. Each recipient of an Award shall have, after   
delivery to him or her or to an escrow agent (the "Escrow Agent") on his behalf
of a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock
awarded, absolute ownership of such shares including the right to vote them and
to receive dividends on the shares, subject, however, to the risk of forfeiture
and the terms, conditions and restrictions described in the Plan and in the
instrument evidencing the grant of the Award.

        (f) Restrictions on Transfer. In addition to such other terms,
conditions and restrictions upon Awards as shall be imposed by the Board of
Directors, all shares issued  pursuant to an Award shall be subject to the
following restrictions:

           (1) All shares of Common Stock subject to an Award (including any
shares issued pursuant to paragraph (g) of this Section 5) shall be subject to
certain restrictions on disposition and obligations of resale to the Company as
provided in subparagraph (2) below for the period specified in the document
evidencing the Award, and shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged,
hypothecated or otherwise disposed of until such restrictions lapse. The period
during which such restrictions are applicable is referred to as the "Restricted
Period."

           (2) In the event that a recipient's employment with the Company is
terminated within the Restricted Period, whether such termination is voluntary
or involuntary, with or without cause, for any reason other than death or total
disability (as determined by the Company) of the recipient, the Company shall
have the right and option for a period of ninety (90) days following such
termination of employment to elect to buy for cash that number of the shares of
Common Stock purchased under the Award as to which the restrictions on transfer
and the forfeiture provisions contained in the Award had not lapsed at the time
of such termination, at a price equal to the price per share originally paid by
the recipient. If such

                                     -3-

<PAGE>   4



termination of employment occurs within the Restricted Period, and there are
less than ninety (90) days remaining in the Restricted Period, the prohibition
against any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition of the recipient's
Common Stock, provided in subparagraph (f)(1) of this Section 5, shall continue
to apply until the expiration of the Company's 90-day option period set forth in
this subparagraph (f) (2).

          (3) If such recipient's employment is terminated within the Restricted
Period by reason of his death or total disability, the Company's right to
repurchase shares issued to such recipient under the Plan shall cease and
terminate at the time of such death or disability; and such shares, from and
after the date of such death or disability, shall no longer be restricted by
the provisions of subparagraph (f)(1) of this Section 5 and may thereafter,
subject to compliance with law, be sold, assigned, transferred or otherwise
disposed of during the balance of the Restricted Period.

          (4) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (1), (2) and (3) above, the Board of
Directors may, in its discretion, either at the time that an Award is made or
at any time thereafter, waive its right to repurchase shares of Common Stock
upon the occurrence of any of the events described in this Section 5(f) or
remove or modify any part or all of the restrictions. In addition, the Board of
Directors may, in its discretion, impose upon the recipient of an Award at the
time of such Award, such other restrictions on any shares of Common Stock
issued pursuant to such Award as the Board may deem advisable and in the best
interests of the Company and its shareholders.

        (g) Additional Shares. Any shares received by a recipient of an Award
as a stock dividend on, or as a result of stock splits, combinations, exchanges
of shares, reorganizations, mergers, consolidations or otherwise with respect
to, shares of Common Stock received pursuant to such Award shall have the same
status and shall bear the same restrictions, all on a proportionate basis, as
the shares initially purchased pursuant to such Award.

        (h) Transfers in Breach of Award; Repurchased Shares. If any transfer
of shares purchased pursuant to an Award is made or attempted contrary to the
terms of the Plan and of such Award, the Board of Directors shall have the
right to purchase those shares for the account of the Company from the owner
thereof or his transferee at any time before or after the transfer at the price
paid for such shares by the person to whom they were awarded under the Plan. In
addition to any other legal or equitable remedies which it may have, the
Company may enforce its rights by specific performance to the extent permitted
by law. The Company may refuse for any purpose to recognize as a shareholder of
the Company any transferee who receives any shares contrary to the provisions
of the Plan and the applicable Award, and the Company may retain and/or recover
all dividends on such shares which were paid or payable subsequent to the date
on which the prohibited transfer was made or

                                     -4-

<PAGE>   5



attempted. Any shares which the Board of Directors elects to repurchase under
the Plan for the account of the Company shall be tendered to the Company by the
delivery of certificates therefor, duly endorsed in blank, at the Company's
principal office on the date and at the time specified by the Board of
Directors. Payment for repurchased shares shall be made by the Company at the
time of delivery of the certificate(s) representing the repurchased shares.

        (i) Resale Restrictions. Certain officers of the Company, who may be
deemed to be "affiliates," may resell shares of the Company's Common Stock
purchased under the Plan only subject to certain restrictions imposed by the
Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144 promulgated thereunder. In addition, in
order to obtain the benefits of Rule 16b-3, certain officers of the Company,
who may be deemed to be "insiders" under Rule 16b-3 may not sell any shares of
the Company's Common Stock for at least six months after the date an award is
granted. Any officer purchasing shares under the Plan should consult with legal
counsel prior to doing so.

        (j) Additional Award Provisions. The Board of Directors may, in its
sole discretion, include additional provisions in any Award granted under the
Plan.

6.  GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.

        (a) Investment Representations. The Company may require any person to
whom an Award is made, as a condition of purchasing the shares subject to such
Award or exercising such option, to give written assurances in substance and
form satisfactory to the Company to the effect that such person is acquiring
the Common Stock subject to the Award for his or her own account for investment
and not with any present intention of selling or otherwise distributing the
same, and to such other effects as the Company deems necessary or appropriate
in order to comply with federal and applicable state securities laws.
Certificates for shares of Common Stock delivered pursuant to Awards shall bear
the following legend:

     "The shares of Common Stock represented by this certificate are
     subject to forfeiture, prohibition against transfer or assignment and
     certain other restrictions set forth in the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan
     of Analog Devices, Inc. and in the Restricted Stock Award dated as of
     19__ granted by Analog Devices, Inc. to the owner of this certificate.
     A copy of the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan and the above-described
     Restricted Stock Award are available for inspection, without charge,
     at the offices of Analog Devices, Inc."

        (b) Compliance with Securities Laws. Each Award shall be subject to the
requirement that if, at any time, counsel to the Company shall determine that
the listing, registration or qualification of the shares subject to such Award
upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent
or approval of

                                     -5-

<PAGE>   6



any governmental or regulatory body, is necessary as a condition of, or in
connection with, the issuance or purchase of shares thereunder, such Award may
not be exercised, in whole or in part, unless such listing, registration,
qualification, consent or approval shall have been effected or obtained on
conditions acceptable to the Board of Directors. Nothing herein shall be deemed
to require the Company to apply for or to obtain such listing, registration or
qualifications.

7. RIGHTS AS A SHAREHOLDER.

        The recipient of an Award shall have no rights as a shareholder with
respect to any shares covered by the Award until the date of issue of a stock
certificate to him or her for such shares. No adjustment shall be made for
dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such
stock certificate is issued.

8. ADJUSTMENT PROVISIONS.

        (a) If the outstanding shares of Common Stock are increased, decreased
or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities, or
if additional shares or new or different shares or other securities are
distributed with respect to such shares of Common Stock or other securities,
through merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the assets
of the Company, reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock
dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect
to such shares of Common Stock or other securities, or if the Company shall
distribute any substantial amount of its assets with respect to such shares of
Common Stock or other securities, an appropriate and proportionate adjustment
may be made in the maximum number and kind of shares reserved for issuance
under the Plan.

        (b) Adjustments under this Section 8 will be made by the Board of
Directors, whose determination as to what adjustments, if any, will be made and
the extent thereof will be final, binding and conclusive. No fractional shares
will be issued under the Plan on account of any such adjustments.

9. NO SPECIAL EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.

        Nothing contained in the Plan or in any Award shall confer upon any
recipient of an Award any right with respect to the continuation of his or her
employment by the Company or interfere in any way with the right of the Company
at any time to terminate such employment or to increase or decrease the
compensation of the recipient. Whether an authorized leave of absence, or
absence, or absence in military or government service shall constitute
termination of employment shall be determined by the Company at the time of
such absence.


                                     -6-

<PAGE>   7



10. OTHER EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.

        The value of an Award granted to an employee or the sale of shares
received pursuant to an Award will not constitute compensation with respect to
which any other employee benefits of such employee are determined, including,
without limitation, benefits under any bonus, pension, profit-sharing, life
insurance or salary continuation plan, except as otherwise specifically
determined by the Board of Directors.

11. AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN.

        The Plan may at any time be terminated, modified or amended by the
holders of a majority of the then outstanding voting shares of the Company. The
Board of Directors may at any time, and from time to time, modify or amend the
Plan in any respect, except that without the approval of the shareholders of
the Company the Board of Directors may not make any amendment which would (i)
cause the Plan to no longer comply with Rule 16b-3 or any successor to the
foregoing or (ii) require shareholder approval under any applicable listing
requirement. The termination or any modification or amendment of the Plan shall
not, without the consent of a recipient of an Award, affect his or her rights
under an Award previously made to him or her. With the consent of the recipient
of the Award, the Board of Directors may amend outstanding Awards in a manner
not inconsistent with the Plan. The Board of Directors shall have the right to
amend or modify the terms and provisions of the Plan and of any outstanding
Award to the extent necessary to ensure the qualification of the Plan under
Rule 16b-3 or any successor rule.

12. WITHHOLDING.

        (a) The Company shall have the right to deduct from payments of any
kind otherwise due to the participant any federal, state or local taxes of any
kind required by law to be withheld with respect to any shares issued upon any
Award under the Plan. Subject to the prior approval of the Company, which may
be withheld by the Company in its sole discretion, the participant may elect to
satisfy such obligations, in whole or in part, (i) by directing the Escrow
Agent to forward to the Company a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock
otherwise deliverable by the Escrow Agent to the participant pursuant to the
grant of an Award or (ii) by delivering to the Company shares of Common Stock
already owned by the participant. The shares so delivered by the Escrow Agent
or the participant shall have a fair market value equal to such withholding
obligation. The fair market value of the shares used to satisfy such
withholding obligation shall be determined by the Company as of the date that
the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. A participant who has
made an election pursuant to this Section 12(a) may only satisfy his or her
withholding obligation with shares of Common Stock which are not subject to any
repurchase, forfeiture, unfulfilled vesting or other similar requirements.

                                     -7-

<PAGE>   8



        (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of any persons who are
required to file reports under Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), no election to use shares for the
payment of withholding taxes shall be effective unless made in compliance with
any applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 or any successor rule under the
Exchange Act.

        (c) If the recipient of an Award under the Plan elects, in accordance
with Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
"Code") to recognize ordinary income in the year of acquisition of any shares
awarded under the Plan, the Company will require at the time of such election
an additional payment for withholding tax purposes based on the difference, if
any, between the purchase price of such shares and the fair market value of
such shares as of the date immediately preceding the date of the Award.

13. EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF THE PLAN.

        (a) Effective Date. The Plan shall become effective when adopted by the
Board of Directors and approved by the Company's shareholders.

        (b) Termination. Unless sooner terminated by the Board of Directors or
shareholders of the Company, the Plan shall terminate upon the earlier of (i)
the close of business on the day next preceding the tenth anniversary on the
date of its adoption by the Board of Directors, or (ii) the date on which all
shares available for issuance under the Plan shall have been issued pursuant to
the final vesting of Awards granted under the Plan. If the date of termination
is determined under (i) above, then Awards outstanding on such date shall
continue to have force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the
instruments evidencing such Awards.

14. CHANGE IN CONTROL.

        (a) Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Plan, in the
event of a Change in Control (as defined below), all of the Company's rights to
repurchase outstanding shares issued to participants in the Plan prior to the
occurrence of such Change in Control shall cease and terminate as of the date
such Change in Control occurs; and such shares, from and after such date, shall
no longer be restricted by the provisions of Section 5 of the Plan.

        (b) A "Change in Control" shall occur or be deemed to have occurred,
only if any of the following events occur: (i) any "person," as such term is
used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, (other than the Company,
any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit
plan of the Company, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the
shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportion as their
ownership of stock of the Company) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as
defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act),

                                     -8-

<PAGE>   9



directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of
the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; (ii)
individuals who, as of December 12, 1990, constitute the Board of Directors of
the Company (as of the date hereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason
to constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person
becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination
of election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a
majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an
election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the
election of the directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11
of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this
Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent
Board; (iii) the shareholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation
of the Company with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or
consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company
outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) more than 80% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after
such merger or consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to
implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no
"person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting
power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or (iv) the shareholders of
the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
of the Company's assets.

15. PROVISIONS FOR FOREIGN PARTICIPANTS.

        The Board of Directors may, without amending the Plan, modify Awards
granted to participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the
United States to recognize differences in tax, securities, currency laws,
rules, regulations or customs of such foreign jurisdictions.

16. INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.

        The Company is subject to the informational and reporting requirements
of Section 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and in
accordance therewith files reports, proxy statements and other information with
the Commission. The following documents, which are on file with the Commission,
are incorporated in this Prospectus by reference:

        (a) The Company's (i) latest annual report filed pursuant to Section 13
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or (ii) the latest prospectus
filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, which contains,
either directly or by

                                     -9-

<PAGE>   10



incorporation by reference, certified financial statements for the Company's
latest fiscal year for which such statements have been filed or (iii) the
Company's effective registration statement on Form 10 filed under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 containing audited financial statements for the Company's
latest fiscal year.

        (b) All other reports filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 since the end of the fiscal year covered by the
annual reports or the prospectus referred to in (a) above.

        (c) The Company's definitive proxy statement or information statement,
if any, filed pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in
connection with the latest annual meeting of its stockholders, and any
definitive proxy or information statements so filed in connection with any
subsequent special meetings of its stockholders.

        (d) The description of the Common Stock and Rights which are contained
in registration statements filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
including any amendment or report filed for the purpose of updating such
description.

        (e) Information as to stock options, including the amount outstanding,
exercises, prices and expiration dates, included in the Company's definitive
proxy statement, described in (c) above and which will be included in the
future either in the Company's proxy statements, annual reports or appendices
to the prospectus.

        All reports and definitive proxy or information statements filed by the
Company pursuant to Section 13, 14 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, which are
filed subsequent to the date of this Prospectus and prior to the filing of a
post-effective amendment which indicates that all shares offered hereby have
been sold or which deregisters all shares then remaining unsold, shall be
deemed to be incorporated in this Prospectus by reference and to be a part
hereof from the date of filing of such reports and documents. For more
information about the Plan, and its administrators,  please contact the
Director of Corporate Communications, One Technology Way, P.O. Box 9106,
Norwood, MA 02062-9106, telephone (617) 329-4700.





                                     -10-

<PAGE>   11



                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                First Amendment to 1991 Restricted Stock Plan
                ---------------------------------------------


        The 1991 Restricted Stock Plan of Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Plan"),
pursuant to Section 11 thereof, is hereby amended as follows:

        1. Section 2(b) is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the
following paragraph:

        "(b) Grant of Awards to Directors and Officers. The selection of a
director or officer as a participant and the size of an Award to such director
or officer shall be determined by the Board of Directors, of which all members
acting in the matter, shall be "disinterested directors" (as hereinafter
defined) or by a committee of two or more disinterested persons. For the
purposes of the Plan, a director shall be deemed to be "disinterested" only if
such person qualifies as a "disinterested person" within the meaning of Rule
16b-3 as such term is interpreted from time to time."

        The foregoing amendment shall take effect upon the approval by the
Board of Directors of Analog Devices, Inc. Except as so amended, the Plan shall
remain in full force and effect.

                                     Adopted by the Board of Directors
                                     September 16, 1991



                                     -11-

<PAGE>   12



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                 Second Amendment to 1991 Restricted Stock Plan
                 ----------------------------------------------

        The 1991 Restricted Stock Plan of Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Plan"),
pursuant to Section 11 thereof, is hereby amended as follows:

        Section 4 of the Plan is amended to increase the number of shares of
Analog Devices, Inc. Common Stock, $.16 2/3 par value per share, subject to the
Plan, so that as amended (and taking into account all stock splits and stock
dividends distributed through January 3, 1996), said Section 4 shall read as
follows:

        "4. STOCK SUBJECT TO PLAN. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section
8 below, the maximum number of shares of Common Stock of the Company which may
be issued and sold under the Plan is 2,025,000 shares. Such shares may be (i)
authorized and unissued shares or (ii) issued and thereafter acquired by the
Company or (iii) subject to the requirements of 16b-3, tendered back to the
Company or withheld by the Company for tax withholding obligations pursuant to
Section 12. Any shares of Common Stock subject to an Award which are not
purchased by the recipient of the Award, or which are purchased by the
recipient of the Award but later repurchased by the Company in accordance with
the terms of the Award or the Plan, shall again be available for purposes of
the Plan."

        The foregoing amendment shall take effect upon the date approved by the
Board of Directors, subject to ratification and approval by the stockholders of
Analog Devices, Inc. Except as so amended, the Plan shall remain in full force
and effect. 

                                       Adopted by the Board of Directors 
                                       December 6, 1995

                                     -12-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>1980 STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    Exhibit 10-3


                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                            1980 STOCK OPTION PLAN

                                June 18, 1980


1. Purpose. 
  ------- 

        The purpose of the Plan is to secure for Analog Devices, Inc. (the
"Company") and its shareholders the benefits arising from capital stock
ownership by those key employees of the Company (and any designated subsidiary)
who will be responsible for the Company's future growth and continued success.
The Plan will provide a means whereby such employees may purchase shares of the
common stock, $.16 2/3 par value, of the Company (the "Common Stock").

2.  Administration.
   --------------

        (a) The Plan will be administered by the Board of Directors of the
Company whose construction and interpretation of the terms and provisions
hereof shall be final and conclusive. Any director to whom an option is awarded
shall be ineligible to vote upon his option, but options may be granted any
such director by the remainder of the directors, except as limited below. The
Board of Directors may in its sole discretion grant options to purchase shares
of the Company's Common Stock and issue shares upon exercise of such options as
provided in this Plan. The Board shall have authority, subject to the express
provisions of the Plan, to construe the respective option agreements and the
Plan, to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the
Plan, to determine the terms and provisions of the respective option
agreements, which need not be identical, and to make all other determinations
in the judgment of the Board necessary or desirable for the administration of
the Plan. The Board may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile
any inconsistency in the Plan or in any option agreement in the manner and to
the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect and it shall
be the sole and final judge of such expediency. No director shall be liable for
any action or determination made in good faith. The Board of Directors may
delegate any or all of its powers under the Plan to a Stock Option Committee or
other Committee (the "Committee") appointed by the Board consisting of at least
three members of the Board, and if the Committee is so appointed all references
to the Board of Directors herein shall mean and relate to such Committee.

        (b) With respect to the participation of any director in the Plan, his
selection as a participant and the number of option shares to be allocated to
such director shall be determined either (i) by the Board of Directors, of
which a majority, as well as a majority of the directors acting in the matter,
shall be "disinterested persons" (as hereinafter defined) or (ii) by, or in
accordance with, the recommendations of a

    
<PAGE>   2




committee of three or more persons having full authority to act in the matter,
of which all members of such committee shall be disinterested persons. For the
purposes of the Plan, a director or member of such committee shall be deemed to
be a "disinterested person" only if such person is not at the time such
discretion is exercised eligible and has not at any time within one year prior
thereto been eligible for selection as a person to whom stock may be allocated
or to whom stock options may be granted pursuant to the Plan or any other plan
of the Company or any of its affiliates entitling the participants therein to
acquire stock or stock options and stock appreciation rights issued pursuant to
a plan of the Company or any of its affiliates.

3.  Eligibility.
   -----------

        Officers and key employees of the Company or of any subsidiary (as
defined in Section 16 hereof) shall be eligible for selection by the Board of
Directors to participate in the Plan; provided that options under the Plan
shall not be granted to any person who at the time such option is granted owns,
or could own as a result of the grant, directly or indirectly, Common Stock
possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of
stock of the Company. Directors who are not regular employees are not eligible
to participate in the Plan. An employee who has been granted an option may, if
he or she is otherwise eligible, be granted an additional option or options if
the directors shall so determine.

4.  Stock Subject to Plan.
   ---------------------

        Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 13 and 14 hereof, the
stock to be offered under the Plan shall consist of shares of the Company's
Common Stock and the number of shares of stock that may be issued upon the
exercise of all options granted under the Plan shall not exceed in the
aggregate 400,000 shares. Such shares may be authorized and unissued shares or
may be treasury shares. If an option granted hereunder shall expire or
terminate for any reason without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased
shares subject thereto shall again be available for the purposes of this Plan.

5.  Purchase Price.
   --------------

        The purchase price per share of stock deliverable upon the exercise of
an option shall be determined by the Board of Directors, but shall not be less
than 100% of the fair market value of such stock, as determined by the Board of
Directors, on the day the option is granted, but in no event less than the par
value per share of such stock. Options granted hereunder may be exercised by
delivery to the Treasurer of the Company of (a) cash or a check payable to the
order of the Company in an amount equal to the exercise price of such options,
(b) shares of Common Stock of the Company having a fair market value equal in
amount to the exercise price of

                                      2

<PAGE>   3




those options being exercised, or (c) any combination of (a) and (b). For the
purposes hereof, the fair market value of any share of the Company's Common
Stock to be delivered to the Company in exercise of any options hereunder shall
be determined by the Board of Directors and shall be based upon the closing per
share price of the Common Stock of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange
Composite Tape for such period immediately preceding the date of exercise as
shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. If an optionee elects to exercise
options by delivery of shares of Common Stock of the Company, the certificate or
certificates representing the shares of Common Stock of the Company to be
delivered shall be duly executed in blank by the holder thereof or shall be
accompanied by a stock power duly executed in blank suitable for purposes of
transferring such shares to the Company. Fractional shares of Common Stock of
the Company will not be accepted in payment of the exercise price of options
granted hereunder.

6.  Duration of Options.
    -------------------

        Each option and all rights thereunder shall expire on such date as the
Board of Directors may determine, but in no event later than ten (10) years
from the day on which the option is granted and shall be subject to earlier
termination as provided herein.

7.  Exercise of Options.
    -------------------

        The period or periods during which any options granted hereunder may be
exercised shall be determined by the Board of Directors, in its discretion, and
such exercise periods need not be identical. Unless otherwise determined by the
Board of Directors, the shares subject to an option may be purchased commencing
after a period ending one (1) year following the date of grant. (Such period is
referred to herein as the "waiting period.") Following the waiting period,
unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the shares subject to
the option may be purchased by the optionee as follows: 25% of such shares
commencing at the end of the waiting period, and an additional 25% of such
shares commencing on the first day of each of the second, third and fourth
years following the waiting period. At the time an option is granted, the Board
of Directors shall fix the period in which it may be exercised which shall not,
unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, be less than five (5) years
plus one day nor more than ten (10) years from the date of grant. (Such period
is referred to herein as the "exercise period.") To the extent that an option
to purchase shares is not exercised by an optionee when it becomes initially
exercisable, it shall not expire but shall be carried forward and shall be
exercisable, on a cumulative basis, until the expiration of the exercise
period. Partial exercise will be permitted from time to time within the
percentage limitation described above, provided that no partial exercise may be
for less than (10) full shares of Common Stock, or its equivalent.

                                      3

<PAGE>   4





8.  Nontransferability of Options.
   -----------------------------

        No option granted under the Plan shall be assignable or transferable by
the option holder, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or
the laws of descent and distribution. During the life of the recipient, the
option shall be exercisable only by him or her.

9.  Effect of Termination of Employment or Death.
   --------------------------------------------

        In the event that an optionee during his or her lifetime ceases to be
an employee of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company for any reason,
including retirement (except death), any option or unexercised portion thereof
which was otherwise exercisable on the date of termination of employment shall
expire unless exercised within a period of three months from the date on which
the optionee ceased to be an employee, but in no event after the expiration of
the exercise period. In the event of the death of an optionee during this
three-month period, the option shall be exercisable by his or her personal
representatives, heirs or legatees to the same extent and during the same
period that the optionee could have exercised the option if he or she had not
died.

        In the event of the death of an optionee while an employee of the
Company or any subsidiary of the Company, the option granted to the deceased
employee, if his or her waiting period has elapsed, shall be exercisable, to
the same extent that the optionee could have exercised the option on the date
of death if he or she had not died, by his or her personal representatives,
heirs or legatees at any time prior to the expiration of six (6) months from
the date of the death of the optionee, but in no event after the expiration of
the exercise period. In the event that an optionee ceases to be an employee of
the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company for any reason, including death
or retirement, prior to the lapse of the waiting period, his or her option
shall terminate and be null and void.

        Whether an authorized leave of absence, or absence in military or
government service,  shall constitute termination of employment shall be
determined by the Board of Directors at the time.

10. No Special Employment Rights.
    ----------------------------

        Nothing contained in the Plan or in any option granted under the Plan
shall confer upon any option holder any right with respect to the continuation
of his or her employment by the Company or any subsidiary or interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary, subject to the terms of
any separate employment agreement to the contrary, at any time to terminate
such employment or

                                      4

<PAGE>   5




to increase or decrease the compensation of the option holder from the rate in
existence at the time of the grant of an option.

11. General Restriction.
    -------------------

        Each option shall be subject to the requirement that, if at the time
the Board of Directors  shall  determine that the listing,  registration or
qualification of the shares subject to such option upon any securities exchange
or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any government
or regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in
connection with, the granting of such option or the issue or purchase of shares
thereunder, such option may not be exercised in whole or in part unless such
listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval shall have been
effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Board of
Directors.

12. Rights as a Shareholder.
    -----------------------

        The holder of an option shall have no rights as a shareholder with
respect to any shares covered by the option until the date of issue of a stock
certificate to him or her for such shares. Except as otherwise expressly
provided in the Plan, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights
for which the record date is prior to the date such stock certificate is
issued.

13. Recapitalization.
    ----------------

        In the event that dividends are payable in Common Stock of the Company
or in the event there are splits, sub-divisions or combinations of shares of
Common Stock of the Company, the number of shares available under the Plan
shall be increased or decreased proportionately, as the case may be, and the
number of shares deliverable upon the exercise thereafter of any option
theretofore granted shall be increased or decreased proportionately, as the
case may be, without change in the aggregate purchase price.

14. Reorganization.
    --------------

        In case the Company is merged or consolidated with another corporation
and the Company is not the surviving corporation, or in case the property or
stock of the Company is acquired by any other corporation, or in case of a
separation, reorganization or liquidation of the Company, the Board of
Directors of the Company, or the board of directors of any corporation assuming
the obligations of the Company hereunder, shall, as to outstanding options,
either (i) make appropriate provision for the protection of any such
outstanding options by the substitution on an equitable basis of appropriate
stock of the Company, or of the merged, consolidated

                                      5

<PAGE>   6




or otherwise reorganized corporation which will be issuable in respect to the
shares of Common Stock of the Company, provided only that the excess of the
aggregate fair market value of the shares subject to the options immediately
after such substitution over the purchase price thereof is not more than the
excess of the aggregate fair market value of the shares subject to such options
immediately before such substitution over the purchase price thereof, or (ii)
upon written notice to the optionees, provide that all unexercised options must
be exercised within forty-five (45) days of the date of such notice or they will
be terminated. In any such case the Board of Directors may, in its discretion,
advance the lapse of waiting period and exercise dates.

15. Withholding Taxes.
    -----------------

        Whenever under the Plan shares are to be issued in satisfaction of
options granted thereunder, the Company shall have the right to require the
recipient to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy federal,
state and local withholding tax requirements prior to the delivery of any
certificate or certificates for such shares.

16. Subsidiary.
    ----------

        As used herein, the term "subsidiary" shall mean any future or present
corporation which would be a "subsidiary corporation" of the Company as that
term is defined in Section 425 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.

17. Amendment of the Plan.
    ---------------------

        The Plan may at any time or from time to time be terminated, modified
or amended by a majority vote of the shareholders of the Company. The Board of
Directors may at any time and from time to time modify or amend the Plan in any
respect, except that without shareholder approval the Board of Directors may
not (a) materially increase the benefits accruing to participants under the
Plan, (b) materially increase the number of shares which may be issued under
the Plan, or (c) materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for
participation under the Plan. The termination or any modification or amendment
of the Plan shall not, without the consent of an employee, affect his or her
rights under an option previously granted to him or her. With the consent of
the employee affected, the Board of Directors may amend outstanding option
agreements in a manner not inconsistent with the Plan.

18. Duration of the Plan.
    --------------------

        The effective date of the Plan shall be June 18, 1980. The Plan shall
remain in effect until all options granted under the Plan have been Satisfied
by the issuance of

                                      6

<PAGE>   7




shares or terminated under the terms of the Plan, provided that no options under
the Plan may be granted after ten (10) years from the effective date of the
Plan.

19. Approval of Shareholders.
    ------------------------

        The Plan has been adopted by the Board of Directors, but is subject to
the approval of the shareholders of the Company at their next annual meeting.
Options under the Plan may be granted at any time prior to shareholder
approval, but if such shareholder approval is not obtained, such option shall
be null and void.


     
                                       Adopted by Stockholders
                                       March 10, 1981
                    

                                      7

<PAGE>   8






                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                     --------------------------------------
                     
                       AMENDMENT TO 1980 STOCK OPTION PLAN
                      TO ESTABLISH INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS

                     --------------------------------------

   The 1980 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc. ("Company") is hereby
amended by adding new Sections 19 and 20 thereto, as follows:

     19. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
   contained in any other provisions of this Plan, options granted under this
   Plan from and after October 2, 1981 may, in the sole discretion of the
   Board of Directors of the Company ("Board"), or the Committee if the Board
   delegates administration of the Plan to a committee, be "Incentive Stock
   Options" within the meaning of Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code of
   1954, as amended ("Code"), provided that any such options (hereinafter
   "Incentive Options") are, at the time of grant, c1early identified as such
   and satisfy the following terms and conditions:

     (a) The aggregate fair market value (determined as of the date that
   any Incentive Option is granted) of the Common Stock for which an employee
   may be granted Incentive Options in any calendar year under the Plan and
   all other incentive stock option plans of the Company and its subsidiaries
   shall not exceed $100,000 plus any unused carryover to such year computed
   pursuant to Section 422A(c)(4) of the Code.

     (b) No Incentive Options granted under the Plan may be exercised,
   whether in whole or in part, while there is outstanding, within the meaning
   of Section 422A(c)(7) of the Code, any other option to purchase stock of
   the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company (or a predecessor
   corporation of any thereof) qualifying as an "Incentive Stock Option" under
   Section 422A(b) of the Code which was granted to the option holder prior to
   the granting of such Incentive Option. For purposes hereof, any such option
   shall be deemed to be outstanding unless and until it is exercised in full
   or it shall have expired by reason of the lapse of time.

     (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5 of the Plan, no shares
   of Common Stock of the Company may be tendered in payment of the exercise
   price of any option granted under the Plan if the shares to be so tendered
   were

                    8

<PAGE>   9




   acquired within twelve (12) months before the date of such tender, through
   the exercise of an option granted under the Plan or any other stock option
   plan of the Company.

     (d) An Incentive Option may be granted to any officer or key employee
   who, at the time such option is granted, owns stock possessing more than
   ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of
   stock of the Company (or of its parent or any subsidiary) if, but only if,
   at the time such option is granted the option price is at least 110 percent
   of the fair market value of the stock subject to the option and such option
   by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the
   date such option is granted.

     (e) Notwithstanding any provisions in the Plan to the contrary, the
   Board of Directors may amend or modify the terms and provisions of the Plan
   and of any outstanding options under the Plan to the extent necessary to
   qualify any or all options under the Plan for such favorable federal income
   tax treatment (including deferral of taxation upon exercise) as may be
   afforded employee stock options under Section 422A of the Code.

     20. APPLICATION OF SECTION 251 OF THE ECONOMIC RECOVERY TAX ACT OF
   1981. The Board of Directors may elect on behalf of the Company to have the
   provisions of Section 251 of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981
   (relating to "incentive stock options" qualifying under Section 422A of the
   Internal Revenue Code) apply, to the extent possible, to any one or more
   options (including any portion of an option) granted under the Plan on or
   after January 1, 1976 and exercised on or after, or outstanding on, January
   1, 1981, and may make such amendments to the Plan and, with the consent of
   the optionee (if required), any such option as shall be necessary to permit
   such option to qualify as an incentive stock option under, and subject to
   the limitations of, such provisions. In the event that one or more options
   or portions of an option for which incentive stock option treatment may be
   elected pursuant to this Section 20 is determined not to be eligible for
   such treatment under Section 251 of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981,
   the Board of Directors may elect that such treatment apply to such other
   options or portions of options which are eligible for such treatment.

     This amendment was adopted by the Board on the date set forth below,
   and shall become effective as of such date, subject to the approval of the
   holders of a majority of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company prior
   to October 2, 1982. Subject to such stockholder approval, Incentive Options
   may be granted under the Plan at any time and from time to time after the

                    9

<PAGE>   10




     adoption of this amendment by the Board and prior to the termination of the
     Plan.

Approved and adopted by the Board of Directors 
of Analog Devices, Inc.
October 2, 1981.

Approved by Stockholders
March 11, 1982


                                       10

<PAGE>   11




                       AMENDMENT TO 1980 STOCK OPTION PLAN




VOTED:    To amend the first sentence of section 4 of the 1980 Stock Option Plan
          of the corporation to read as follows: "Subject to adjustment as
          provided in Sections 13 and 14 hereof, the stock to be offered under
          the Plan shall consist of shares of the Company's Common Stock, $.16
          2/3 par value, and the number of shares of stock that may be issued
          upon the exercise of all options granted under the Plan shall not
          exceed in the aggregate 1,000,000 shares."

                                            Adopted by the Board of
                                            Directors December 15, 1981

                                            Approved by Stockholders
                                            March 11, 1982



                                       11

<PAGE>   12




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                   Second Amendment to 1980 Stock Option Plan
                   ------------------------------------------

     The 1980 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Company"), as
amended (the "Plan"), is hereby further amended by deleting Sections 6 and 19
and adding new Sections 6 and 19 thereto as follows:

     6.   Duration of Options.
          -------------------

          Each option and all rights thereunder shall be expressed to expire on
     such date as the Board of Directors may determine, but in no event later
     than ten (10) years from the day on which the option is granted in the case
     of an Incentive Stock Option (as hereinafter defined) and ten (10) years
     and one (1) month from the day on which the option is granted in the case
     of a non-statutory option, and shall be subject to earlier termination as
     provided herein.

     19.  Incentive Stock Options.
          -----------------------

          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other
     provisions of this Plan, options granted under this Plan from and after
     October 2, 1981 may, in the sole discretion of the Board of Directors of
     the Company (the "Board") or the Committee if the Board delegates
     administration of the Plan to a committee, be "incentive stock options"
     within the meaning of Section 422A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, as
     amended (the "Code"),  provided that any such options  (hereinafter
     "Incentive Stock Options") are, at the time of grant, clearly identified as
     such and satisfy the following terms and conditions:

          (a)  Dollar Limitation

               (i) The aggregate fair market value (determined as of the
          respective date or dates of grant) of the Common Stock which may be
          made the subject of Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan
          (and all other Incentive Stock Option plans of the Company or its
          subsidiaries), prior to January 1, 1987, to any employee in any one
          calendar year shall not exceed the sum of $100,000, plus any unused
          carryover to such year from each of the three immediately preceding
          calendar years after 1980. For purposes of the preceding limitation,
          the term "carryover" means, with respect to each calendar year after
          1980, one half the amount by which the sum of $100,000 exceeds the
          aggregate fair market value  (determined as of the respective date or
          dates of grant) of the Common Stock for which the optionee is granted

                                       12

<PAGE>   13




          Incentive Stock Options under the Plan (or any other Incentive Stock
          Option plan of the Company or its subsidiaries) in such calendar year.
          Incentive Stock Options granted during any calendar year shall first
          be applied against the basic $100,000 limitation in effect for such
          calendar year and then applied against any unused carryovers to such
          calendar year in the order in which such carryovers arose in prior
          calendar years. In the event that Section 422A(b)(8) of the Code is
          amended to alter the limitation set forth therein so that following
          such amendment such limitation shall differ from the limitation set
          forth in this paragraph (a), the limitation of this paragraph (a)
          shall be automatically adjusted accordingly.

               (ii) Incentive Stock Options granted to any employee under the
          Plan (and under all other Incentive Stock Option plans of the Company,
          a parent corporation or a subsidiary) on or after January 1, 1987
          shall not, in the aggregate, become exercisable for the first time in
          any one calendar year for shares of Common Stock with an aggregate
          fair market value (determined as of the respective date or dates of
          grant) or more than $100,000.

          (b) No Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan prior to January
     1, 1987 may be exercised, whether in whole or in part, while there is
     outstanding, within the meaning of Section 422A(c)(7) of the Code, any
     other option to purchase stock of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of
     the Company (or a predecessor corporation of any thereof) qualifying as an
     "incentive stock option" under Section 422A(b) of the Code which was
     granted to the option holder prior to the granting of such Incentive Stock
     Option.

          (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5 of the Plan, no shares
     of Common Stock of the Company may be tendered in payment of the exercise
     price of any option granted under the Plan if the shares to be so tendered
     were acquired within twelve (12) months before the date of such tender,
     through the exercise of an option granted under the Plan or any other stock
     option plan of the Company.

          (d) An Incentive Stock Option may be granted to any officer or key
     employee who, at the time such option is granted, owns stock possessing
     more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all
     classes of stock of the Company (or of its parent or any subsidiary) if,
     but only if, at the time such option is granted the option price is at
     least 110% of the fair market value of the stock subject to the option and
     such option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five
     (5) years from the date such option is granted.

                                       13

<PAGE>   14




          (e) Notwithstanding any provisions in the Plan to the contrary, the
     Board may amend or modify the terms and provisions of the Plan and of any
     outstanding options under the Plan to the extent necessary to qualify any
     or all options under the Plan for such favorable Federal income tax
     treatment (including deferral of taxation upon exercise) as may be afforded
     employee stock options under Section 422A of the Code.

     This Amendment was adopted by the Board on the date set forth below and
shall become effective as of such date.

                                      Approved and Adopted by the Board of
                                      Directors of Analog Devices, Inc. on
                                      December 17, 1986



                                       14

<PAGE>   15



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                    Third Amendment to 1980 Stock Option Plan
                    -----------------------------------------

     The 1980 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc. is hereby amended by
adding the following new Section 21 at the end thereof:

     "21. Change in Control.
          -----------------

          (a) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Plan,
in the event of a Change in Control (as defined below), all options outstanding
as of the date such Change in Control occurs shall become exercisable in full,
whether or not otherwise exercisable in accordance with their terms.  

          (b) A "Change in Control" shall occur or be deemed to have occurred
only if any of the following events occur: (i) any "person," as such term is
used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (the "Exchange Act"), (other than the Company, any trustee or 
other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the
Company, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders
of the Company in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of
stock of the Company) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in
Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of
the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power of the
Company's then outstanding securities; (ii) individuals who, as of December
13, 1988, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (as of the date
hereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a 
majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director
subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by
the Company's stockholders, was

                                       15

<PAGE>   16



approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the
Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an individual whose
initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened
election contest relating to the election of the directors of the Company, as
such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act)
shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered as though such person were
a member of the Incumbent Board; (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a
merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than
(A) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) more than 80% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after
such merger or consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to
implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no
"person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting
power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or (iv) the stockholders of
the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
of the Company's assets."

                       Adopted by the Board of Directors
                       December 14, 1988



                                       16
                                        


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>1989 DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10-5


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                         1989 DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN

1.   Purpose.

     The purpose of this 1989 Director Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") of Analog
Devices, Inc. (the "Company") is to encourage ownership in the Company by
outside directors of the Company whose continued services are considered
essential to the Company's future progress and to provide them with a further
incentive to remain as directors of the Company.

2.   Administration.

     The Board of Directors shall supervise and administer the Plan. Grants of
stock options under the Plan and the amount and nature of the awards to be
granted shall be automatic in accordance with Section 5. However, all questions
of interpretation of the Plan or of any options issued under it shall be
determined by the Board of Directors and such determination shall be final and
binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan.

3.   Participation in the Plan.

     Directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.

4.   Stock Subject to the Plan.

     (a) The maximum number of shares which may be issued under the Plan shall
be sixty thousand (60,000) shares of the Company's Common Stock, par value $.16
2/3 per share ("Common Stock"), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10
of the Plan.

     (b) If any outstanding option under the Plan for any reason expires or is
terminated without having been exercised in full, the shares allocable to the
unexercised portion of such option shall again become available for grant
pursuant to the Plan.

     (c) All options granted under the Plan shall be non-statutory options not
entitled to special tax treatment under Section 422A of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended to date and as may be amended from time to time (the
"Code").


                                      B-1

<PAGE>   2



5.   Terms, Conditions and Form of Options.

     Each option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written
agreement in such form as the Board of Directors shall from time to time
approve, which agreements shall comply with and be subject to the following
terms and conditions:

     (a) Option Grant Date. Options shall be granted automatically to all
eligible directors at the close of business on the date the Plan is approved by
the stockholders of the Company.  Thereafter,  options shall be granted
automatically to persons who subsequently become eligible directors on the close
of business on the date of his or her initial election to the Board of
Directors.

     (b) Shares Subject to Option. Each option granted under the Plan shall be
exercisable for up to 5,000 shares of Common Stock.

     (c) Option Exercise Price. The option exercise price per share for each
option granted under the Plan shall equal the closing price per share of the
Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange consolidated transaction
reporting system on the date of grant (or if no such price is reported on such
date such price as reported on the nearest preceding day).

     (d) Options Non-Transferable. Each option granted under the Plan by its
terms shall not be transferable by the optionee otherwise than by will, or by
the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercised during the lifetime
of the optionee only by him. No option or interest therein may be transferred,
assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the optionee during his lifetime, whether
by operation of law or otherwise, or be made subject to execution, attachment or
similar process.

     (e) Exercise Period. Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, no option
may be exercised prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant of such
option. Each option may be exercised on a cumulative basis as to one-third of
the shares subject to the option on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of
the date of grant of such option, provided that, subject to the provisions of
Section 5(f), no option may be exercised more than 90 days after the optionee
ceases to serve as a director of the Company. No option shall be exercisable
after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of grant.

     (f) Exercise Period Upon Death, Disability or Mandatory Retirement.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5(e), any option granted under the
Plan may be exercised in full by an optionee who becomes disabled (within the
meaning of Section 22(e) (3) of the Code or any successor provision thereto)
while acting as a director of the Company or who retires pursuant to the terms
of any retirement policy adopted by the Company, or may be exercised in full
upon the death of such optionee while a director of the Company or within three
months after he ceases to serve as a director of the Company by the person to
whom it is transferred by will, by the laws of descent and

                                      B-2

<PAGE>   3



distribution, or by written notice filed pursuant to Section 5(h), in each case
within the period of one year after the date the optionee ceases to be such a
director by reason of such death, disability or retirement; provided, that no
option shall be exercisable after the expiration often (10) years from the date
of grant.

     (g) Exercise Procedure. Options may be exercised only by written notice to
the Company at its principal office accompanied by payment in cash of the full
consideration for the shares as to which they are exercised.

     (h) Exercise by Representative Following Death of Director. A director, by
written notice to the Company, may designate one or more persons (and from time
to time change such designation) including his legal representative, who, by
reason of the director's death, shall acquire the right to exercise all or a
portion of the option. If the person or persons so designated wish to exercise
any portion of the option, they must do so within the term of the option as
provided herein. Any exercise by a representative shall be subject to the
provisions of the Plan.

6.   Modification, Extension and Renewal of Options.

     The Board of Directors shall have the power to modify, extend or renew
outstanding options and authorize the grant of new options in substitution
therefor, provided that any such action may not have the effect of altering or
impairing any rights or obligations of any option previously granted without the
consent of the optionee.

7.   Assignments.

     The rights and benefits under the Plan may not be assigned except for the
designation of a beneficiary as provided in Section 5.

8.   Time for Granting Options.

     All options for shares subject to the Plan shall be granted, if at all, not
later than five (5) years after the approval of the Plan by the Company's
stockholders.

9.   Limitation of Rights.

     (a) No Right to Continue as a Director. Neither the Plan, nor the granting
of an option nor any other action taken pursuant to the Plan, shall constitute
or be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied, that the
Company will retain a director for any period of time.

     (b) No Stockholders' Rights for Options. An optionee shall have no rights
as a stockholder with respect to the shares covered by his options until the
date of the issuance to him of a stock certificate therefor, and no adjustment
will be made for

                                      B-3

<PAGE>   4



dividends or other rights (except as provided in Section 10) for which the
record date is prior to the date such certificate is issued.

10.  Changes in Common Stock.

     (a) If the outstanding shares of Common Stock are increased, decreased or
exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other securities, or if
additional shares or new or different shares or other securities are distributed
with respect to such shares of Common Stock or other securities, through merger,
consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company,
reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split,
reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to such shares of Common
Stock, or other securities, an appropriate and proportionate adjustment may be
made in (i) the maximum number and kind of shares reserved for issuance under
the Plan, (ii) the number and kind of shares or other securities subject to then
outstanding options under the Plan and (iii) the price for each share subject to
any then outstanding options under the Plan, without changing the aggregate
purchase price as to which such options remain exercisable. No fractional shares
will be issued under the Plan on account of any such adjustments.

     (b) In the event that the Company is merged or consolidated into or with
another corporation (in which consolidation or merger the stockholders of the
Company receive distributions of cash or securities of another issuer as a
result thereof), or in the event that all or substantially all of the assets of
the Company are acquired by any other person or entity, or in the event of a
reorganization or liquidation of the Company, the Board of Directors of the
Company, or the board of directors of any corporation assuming the obligations
of the Company, shall, as to outstanding options, either (i) provide that such
options shall be assumed, or equivalent options shall be substituted. by the
acquiring or successor corporation (or an affiliate thereof), or (ii) upon
written notice to the optionees, provide that all unexercised options will
terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such merger, consolidation,
acquisition, reorganization or liquidation unless exercised by the optionee
within a specified number of days following the date of such notice.

11.  Change in Control.

     Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Plan, in the
event of a Change of Control (as defined below), all options outstanding as of
the date such Change in Control occurs shall become exercisable in full, whether
or not exercisable in accordance with their terms. A "Change in Control" shall
occur or be deemed to have occurred only if any of the following events occur:
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), (other than
the Company, any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee
benefit plan of the Company, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by
the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same

                                      B-4

<PAGE>   5

proportion as their ownership of stock of the Company) is or becomes the
"beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly
or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the
combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; (ii)
individuals who, as of January 1, 1989, constitute the Board of Directors of the
Company (as of the date thereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a
director subsequent to the date thereof whose election, or nomination for
election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a
majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an
election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in
connection with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the
election of the directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11
of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this
Agreement, considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent
Board; (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation
of the Company with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or
consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company
outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by
remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the
surviving entity) more than 80% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after
such merger or consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to
implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no
"person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires more than 30% of the combined voting
power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or (iv) the stockholders of
the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an
agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all
of the Company's assets.

12.  Amendment of the Plan.

     The Board of Directors may suspend or discontinue the Plan or review or
amend it in any respect whatsoever; provided, however, that without approval of
the stockholders of the Company no revision or amendment shall change the number
of shares subject to the Plan (except as provided in Section 10), change the
designation of the class of directors eligible to receive options, or materially
increase the benefits accruing to participants under the Plan.

13.  Notice.

     Any written notice to the Company required by any of the provisions of the
Plan shall be addressed to the Treasurer of the Company and shall become
effective when it is received.


                                      B-5

<PAGE>   6



14.  Governing Law.

     The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto
shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

     Approved by the Board of Directors on December 14, 1988 Approved by the
     Stockholders on March 14, 1989.


                                      B-6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.13
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT FOR 1525 COMSTOCK ROAD
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   Exhibit 10-13
                                                                   -------------


                                      LEASE

     THIS LEASE, dated August 8, 1990, is made between Bourns, Inc., a
California corporation ("Landlord"), and Precision Monolithics, Inc., a
California corporation ("Tenant").

     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein
and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which
are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:

Article 1. PREMISES

     Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby hires from Landlord,
subject to all terms and conditions of this Lease, those certain premises
commonly known as 1525 Comstock Road, Santa Clara, California consisting of
approximately 2.2 acres and including an office building containing
approximately 43,500 square feet of rentable area, all building improvements and
fixtures attached thereto and all easements appurtenant thereto (the
"Premises").

     A legal description of the Premises is attached hereto as Schedule A.

Article 2. TERM

     2.1 The Initial Term of this Lease, unless sooner terminated as provided
herein, shall be five (5) years, commencing on August 8, 1990 (the "Commencement
Date").

     2.2 Provided there exists no uncured default by Tenant under this Lease,
Tenant shall have the option to extend this Lease for three (3) successive terms
of five (5) years each (the "Option Terms"). Tenant shall exercise its option
for each Option Term, if at all, by written notice to be given to Landlord no
later than nine months prior to expiration of the Initial Term or, if Tenant at
the time of such extension occupies the Premises pursuant to the earlier
exercise of an Option Term, the then-existing Option Term. All references in
this tease to the Term of this Lease shall mean, where appropriate, the Initial
Term as extended by the exercise of the Option Terms.

Article 3. RENT

     3.1 Base Rent for the Initial Term shall be Four Hundred Forty Five
Thousand Dollars ($445,000.00) per annum. Base Rent shall be payable in twelve
(12)

<PAGE>   2

equal installments on the first day of each month in advance, except that the
portion of Base Rent payable for the fraction of the month starting with the
Commencement Date shall be paid on the Commencement Date, prorated on the basis
of the actual number of days in said month. If the Initial or any Option Term
hereof ends on a day other than the last day of a month, then the portion of the
Base Rent for the month during which said expiration occurs shall be prorated on
the basis of the actual number of days in said month.

     3.2 Base Rent for each Option Term shall be the fair rental value of the
Premises at the inception of such Option Term based on the terms and conditions
of this Lease. The fair rental value for each Option Term shall be determined by
the following process: At least six (6) months prior to the commencement of an
Option Term, Tenant and Landlord shall each notify the other of the Base Rent it
believes represents the fair rental value of the Premises. If at least four (4)
months prior to the commencement of an Option Term, the parties have not agreed
in writing on a Base Rent amount, Landlord and Tenant shall determine the fair
rental value of the Premises by MAI appraisal conducted by Coldwell Banker, or
mutually agreeable equivalent, based on the terms and conditions of this Lease
without, however, taking into account any improvements or alterations to the
Premises constructed at the expense, exclusive of insurance proceeds, of Tenant.
The Base Rent for such Option Term shall be the amount previously proposed by
either party that is closer in amount to the appraised rental value. In the
event that neither Landlord's nor Tenant's estimate of the fair rental value is
closer to the appraised rental value, the Base Rent shall be equal to the
appraised rental value. Neither party shall disclose to the appraiser its
estimate of the fair rental value. The fees and reimbursable expenses of such
appraiser shall be paid by the party whose estimate prevails. If for any reason
the Base Rent has not been ascertained by the commencement of the Option Term,
Tenant shall pay on account of Base Rent an amount equal to the average of the
two proposed Base Rents until such time as the actual Base Rent shall have been
established.

     3.3 Throughout the term of this Lease, Tenant shall pay, as additional
rent, all other amounts of money and charges required to be paid by Tenant under
this Lease, whether or not such amounts of money or charges are designated
"additional rent." As used in this Lease, "rent" shall mean and include all Base
Rent and additional rent payable by Tenant in accordance with this Lease.

     3.4 Tenant shall pay all Base Rent under Section 3.1 or Section 3.2 hereof
to Landlord, monthly, in advance, on or before the first day of each and every
calendar month during the term of this Lease and shall pay all additional rent
promptly when due to the person entitled to receive the same. All rent payable
to Landlord shall be paid without deduction or offset, in lawful money of the
United States of America at the address for Landlord set forth on the signature
page hereof, or to such other

                                       -2-

<PAGE>   3


person or at such other place as Landlord may from time to time designate in
writing.

Article 4. NET LEASE

     It is the intention of Landlord and Tenant that the Base Rent payable by
Tenant to Landlord during the entire Term of this Lease shall be absolutely net
of all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the management, operation,
maintenance and repair of the Premises and every part thereof in accordance with
this Lease. Subject to Landlord's obligations under Article 11 hereof, Tenant
shall manage, operate, maintain and repair the Premises and keep the Premises in
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations in accordance with this
Lease and shall pay all costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith
before such costs or expenses become delinquent.

Article 5. TAXES

     5.1 Tenant shall pay, prior to delinquency, as additional rent, all
"Property Taxes" (as hereinafter defined) that accrue during or are allocable to
the term of this Lease. Landlord shall promptly deliver to Tenant any statements
or bills received by Landlord with respect to Property Taxes. Tenant shall
receive the benefit of any discount for early payment of such Property Taxes,
even if such taxes are not paid early, if Tenant is prevented from paying the
taxes early due to Landlord's failure to deliver the bill to Tenant in a timely
fashion. No later than ten (10) days after Landlord delivers to Tenant a request
for evidence of payment of any such amount, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a
receipt or other evidence satisfactory to Landlord that such bill or statement
has been paid.

     5.2 "Property Taxes" shall mean all taxes, assessments, excises, levies,
fees and charges (and any tax, assessment, excise, levy, fee or charge levied
wholly or partly in lieu thereof or as a substitute therefor or as an addition
thereto) of every kind and description, general or special, ordinary or
extraordinary, foreseen or unforeseen, secured or unsecured, whether or not now
customary or within the contemplation of Landlord or Tenant, that are levied,
assessed, charged, confirmed or imposed by any public or government authority on
or against, or otherwise with respect to, (i) the Premises or any part thereof
or any personal property used in connection with the Premises; (ii) any rent
payable under this Lease, including, without limitation, any gross income tax or
excise tax, levied by any public or government authority with respect to the
receipt of any rent with respect to the Premises, but only to the extent no
exemption, exclusion or abatement is available to Landlord, at no cost or
expense to Landlord, with respect to such tax, or (iii) the possession, leasing,
operation, management, maintenance, alternation, repair, use or occupancy by
Tenant of the Premises, together with all interest, fines and other charges
assessed for the late payment of any thereof. Property Taxes shall not

                                       -3-

<PAGE>   4

include net income (measured by the income of Landlord from all sources or from
sources other than solely rent under this Lease), franchise, documentary
transfer, inheritance or capital stock taxes of Landlord, unless levied or
assessed after the Commencement Date against Landlord in whole or in part
expressly in lieu of or as a substitute for any Property Taxes.

     5.3 Tenant shall have the right to contest any Property Taxes imposed
against the Premises or any part thereof, provided (i) the same is done at
Tenant's sole cost and expense, (ii) non-payment of such Property Tax will not
subject the Premises or any part thereof to sale or other liability by reason of
such non-payment, (iii) such contest shall not subject Landlord to the risk of
any criminal or civil liability, (iv) Tenant shall provide a bond in form and
substance as required by applicable law, and (v) Tenant pays the amount
determined to be due promptly after the conclusion of such contest. Landlord
agrees to execute and deliver to Tenant any and all documents reasonably
required, and to cooperate with Tenant in every respect, in any such contest,
but without any cost or expense to Landlord. Landlord agrees not to intervene,
compromise or prejudice Tenant's tax abatement or contest case, provided that
Tenant remains at all times in full compliance with this Article 5.

Article 6. SERVICES

     Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, arrange and pay for all
utilities required for the conduct of its business. Landlord shall not be in
default hereunder or be liable for any damage or loss directly or indirectly
resulting from, nor shall the rent be abated or a constructive or other eviction
be deemed to have occurred by reason of, the installation, use or interruption
of use of any equipment in connection with the furnishing of any of the
foregoing services, any failure to furnish or delay in furnishing any such
services, whether such failure or delay is caused by accident or any condition
beyond the control of Landlord or Tenant or by the making of repairs or
improvements to the Premises, or any limitation, curtailment, rationing or
restriction on use of any utility, whether such results from mandatory
governmental restriction or voluntary compliance with governmental guidelines,
unless, with respect to each of the foregoing conditions, it is due solely to
the act or omission of Landlord or its agents or employees.

Article 7. USE OF PREMISES

     Tenant shall use and occupy the Premises for general office purposes and
activities reasonably related or ancillary thereto, including research
facilities, and shall not use or occupy the Premises for any other purpose
without the prior written consent of the Landlord, which approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed. Tenant's use shall at all times be in
compliance with the provisions of Article 15 hereof. Tenant shall not commit, or
suffer to be committed, any act which (a) is in violation of any insurance
requirement which is a condition to the validity of

                                       -4-

<PAGE>   5

any insurance policy with respect to the Premises, (b) is in violation of the
terms of any insurance policy, or (c) may cause a cancellation of any such
insurance for the Premises.

Article 8. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES

     The Premises shall be let in their present condition, i.e. "as is," and
subject to any facts which would be revealed by a survey or physical inspection
thereof, the state of title as it presently exists and all laws, ordinances and
restrictions applicable thereto. Tenant acknowledges that neither Landlord nor
any agent of Landlord has made any representation or warranty with respect to
the Premises or with respect to the suitability or fitness of the Premises or
the conduct of Tenant's business or for any other purpose. Notwithstanding the
foregoing sentence, Landlord does represent that the use of the Premises by
Landlord's immediate predecessor in title was in material conformance with all
laws, ordinances and regulations relating to zoning and land use applicable to
the Premises. The taking of possession or use of the Premises by Tenant for any
purpose shall conclusively establish that the Premises were at such time in
satisfactory condition and in conformity with the provisions of this Lease in
all respects. Nothing contained in this Article 8 shall affect the commencement
of the Term of this Lease or the obligation of Tenant to pay rent hereunder as
provided in Article 3 hereof.

Article 9. ALTERATIONS

     9.1 Tenant shall not make any alterations, additions or improvements in or
to the Premises or any part thereof, or attach any fixtures or equipment
thereto, without Landlord's prior written consent. Landlord's approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed but may be subject to such conditions as
Landlord may reasonably require. Tenant shall not be required to restore any
alterations, additions or improvements made by Tenant during the Term, unless
such restoration is required by Landlord at the time of such alteration,
addition or improvement. In addition, Tenant may make such alterations,
additions or improvements without Landlord's consent, but with notice to
Landlord, if the total per-project cost of such alterations, additions or
improvements is $50,000.00 or less, and such alterations, additions or
improvements will not affect the structural elements of the Premises, detract
from the fair rental or market value of the Premises. Tenant will comply with
all applicable codes, laws, ordinances, rules or regulations in connection with
any alterations, additions or improvements. All alterations, additions or
improvements in or to the Premises shall be made by Tenant at Tenant's sole cost
and expense, shall be made expeditiously once work is begun and shall be
completed in a good and workmanlike manner using first class materials. No part
of the Premises shall be demolished unless Landlord has received an acceptable
surety bond assuring reconstruction. Tenant shall, at its expense, provide
builder's risk insurance naming Landlord as an insured during the period of any
construction work.

                                       -5-

<PAGE>   6


     9.2 All alterations, additions or improvements requiring Landlord's consent
shall be made as follows:

     (a) Tenant shall submit to Landlord, for Landlord's written approval,
complete plans and specifications for all work to be done by Tenant. Such plans
and specifications shall be prepared by licensed architect(s) and engineer(s)
approved by Landlord, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed,
shall comply with all applicable codes, ordinances, rules and regulations, shall
be in a form sufficient to secure the approval of all government authorities
with jurisdiction over the Premises, and shall be otherwise satisfactory to
Landlord in Landlord's reasonable discretion. Landlord's failure to respond to a
request for plan approval within thirty (30) days shall be deemed approval of
such plans.

     (b) Tenant shall, through Tenant's licensed contractor, perform the work
substantially in accordance with the plans and specifications approved in
writing by Landlord. All material changes in the plans and specifications
approved by Landlord shall be subject to Landlord's prior written approva1. Any
such change shall be based upon revised plans and specifications prepared by the
licensed architect(s) and engineer(s) approved by Landlord, such approval not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

     (c) Tenant shall pay the entire cost of all work (including the cost of all
utilities, permits, fees, taxes, and property and liability insurance premiums
in connection therewith) required to make the alterations, additions or
improvements. Under no circumstances shall Landlord be liable to Tenant for any
damage, loss, cost or expense incurred by Tenant on account of any plans and
specifications, contractors or subcontractors, design of any work, construction
of any work, or delay in completion of any work.

     9.3 All improvements, alterations, additions and fixtures (other than trade
fixtures), whether temporary or permanent in character, made in or to the
Premises by Tenant, shall remain the property of Tenant until the expiration or
earlier termination of this Lease, whereupon they shall become part of the
Premises and Landlord's property. All movable furniture, equipment, trade
fixtures, computers, office machines and other personal property of Tenant shall
remain the property of Tenant. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of
this Lease, Tenant shall, at Tenant's expense, remove all such movable
furniture, equipment, trade fixtures, computers, office machines and other
personal property from the Premises and repair all damage caused by such
removal; provided, however, that Tenant shall not be obligated to make any
repairs to wall or floor coverings or otherwise make repairs if Landlord intends
to otherwise demolish or renovate the Premises so that for all practical
purposes, the repairs would be in vain. This Section 9.3 shall survive the
expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.


                                       -6-
<PAGE>   7

Article 10. LIENS

     Tenant shall promptly discharge or bond off any liens and encumbrances
whatsoever, including mechanics' liens, arising out of any work performed,
materials furnished or obligations incurred by or on behalf of Tenant. Tenant
shall indemnify and hold harmless Landlord from and against any such lien or
claim or action thereon, and reimburse Landlord promptly upon demand therefor by
Landlord for costs of suit and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by Landlord
in connection with any such claim or actions.

Article 11. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR

     11.1 Landlord shall, throughout the Term, at Landlord's sole cost and
expense (a) make all structural repairs to the Premises including, without
limitation, repairs to the roof, the exterior and load bearing walls, the
structural columns and the foundation, and (b) to the extent required within six
(6) months from the date of this Lease, make all capital replacements (not
including overhauls or upgrades) to the plumbing, mechanical, electrical and
HVAC systems and equipment (specifically excluding filters and scrubbers)
existing in the Premises as of the date of this Lease, but only to the extent
the cost of each such capital replacement exceeds $10,000. Landlord shall not be
responsible for the matters listed in (a) or (b) above to the extent any such
structural repair or capital replacement is made necessary by any act or
omission of Tenant, its agents or employees.

     11.2 Except as provided in Section 11.1, Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole
cost and expense, and at all times, keep and maintain the Premises and every
part thereof, in good working order and condition and shall make all normal and
ordinary repairs and replacements which may be necessary to keep the Premises in
good working order and condition, subject to ordinary wear and tear. Tenant, in
keeping the Premises in good order, condition and repair, shall exercise and
perform good maintenance practices. Tenant shall at all times maintain the
current slope, grade and drainage of the land included in the Premises. Landlord
and Tenant expressly waive the benefit of Section 1942 of the California Civil
Code, as the same may be amended in the future, or any statutory provision
enacted in lieu thereof.

Article 12. ENTRY BY LANDLORD

     Landlord shall have the right to enter the Premises at any time during an
emergency and at reasonable times upon prior notice to (i) inspect the Premises,
(ii) exhibit the Premises to prospective purchasers or lenders or, within 6
months prior to the expiration of the Term, prospective tenants, (iii) determine
whether Tenant is performing all of Tenant's obligations under any portion of
this Lease, (iv) post notices-of nonresponsibility, (v) perform any inspection
or action requested or ordered by any governmental authority and (vi) make any
repairs to the Premises

                                       -7-

<PAGE>   8


which, following requisite notice hereunder, Tenant has failed to perform.
Except to the extent caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of
Landlord or Landlord's agents or employees, Tenant waives all claims for damages
for any injury or inconvenience to or interference with Tenant's business, any
loss of occupancy or quiet enjoyment of the Premises or any other loss
occasioned by such entry; provided that Landlord shall have used reasonable
efforts to avoid or minimize any disturbance or disruption to Tenant's business.

Article 13. LIMITATIONS ON LANDLORD'S LIABILITY; INDEMNITY; INSURANCE

     13.1 Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant under this Lease, nor shall
Tenant be entitled to terminate this Lease or to any abatement of rent, for any
damage to or loss or theft of any property or for any bodily or personal injury,
illness or death of any person in, on or about the Premises or for any loss to
Tenant's business arising at any time and from any cause whatsoever (except to
the extent caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or
its agents or employees). Tenant waives all claims against Landlord arising from
any liability described in this Section 13.1 (except to the extent caused by the
gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord or its agents or employees).

     13.2 Tenant shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend Landlord, its
officers, directors, stockholders, partners, employees, agents and
representatives and any other party acting on behalf of Landlord against all
claims, demands, causes of action, liabilities, damages, losses, costs and
expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements, arising from
or related to any use or occupancy of the Premises, or any condition of the
Premises, or any defau1t in the performance of Tenant's obligations, or any
damage to any property (including property of employees and invitees of Tenant)
or any bodily or personal injury, illness or death of any person (including
employees and invitees of Tenant) occurring in, on or about the Premises, or any
part thereof arising at any time and from any cause whatsoever (except to the
extent caused by the negligence or misconduct of Landlord or its agents or
employees) or occurring outside the Premises when such damage, bodily or
personal injury, illness or death is caused by any act or omission of Tenant or
its agents, officers, employees, contractors, invitees or licensees. This
Section 13.2 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease
with respect to any damage, bodily or personal injury, illness or death
occurring prior to such termination.

     13.3 Tenant shall at all times, at its sole cost and expense, obtain, or
cause Analog to obtain, pay for and maintain in full force and effect such
insurance policy or policies as Landlord may from time to time reasonably
request, including the following:


                                      -8-

<PAGE>   9


          (a) "All-Risk" property (including boiler and machinery) insurance, on
a replacement cost basis covering the Premises in an amount no less than the
full replacement coat thereof, excluding insurance coverage for the peril of
earthquake, including the costs of demolition and increased cost of construction
and contingent liability arising out of the need to comply with any building
code, law or regulation, to the extent the loss is due to direct physical loss
to the Premises from an insured peril. Loss covered by such insurance shall be
adjusted by Tenant subject to approval of Landlord, such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed, and the proceeds of such insurance shall be
payable solely to Landlord and Tenant or any Lender designated as mortgagee or
loss payee. Landlord shall be designated as named insured in such policies and
any Lender designated by Landlord shall be included as mortgagee or loss payee
relative to all real property. All risk property policies may provide for
reasonable deductibles (which at the inception of this Lease is $100,000). To
the extent Landlord maintains insurance coverage against the peril of earthquake
with respect to the Premises, Tenant agrees to reimburse Landlord for the annual
premium, up to a maximum of $2,000.00 per year.

          (b) Commercial general liability in respect to occurrences arising out
of or relating to the operation, maintenance and use of the Premises, and
umbrella liability insurance covering Tenant and Landlord as named insureds
against claims arising out of liability for bodily injury and death and personal
injury and advertising injury and property damage occurring in and about the
Premises and otherwise resulting from any acts and operations of Tenant and
Landlord with limits not less than the existing or future limits of such
insurance generally purchased by Tenant with respect to any other premises or
operations of Tenant but in no event less than a total combined single limit at
$10,000,000 per occurrence and $50,000,000 annual general aggregate. Such
insurance may provide for a reasonable deductible (which at the inception of
this Lease is $100,000). If commercially and reasonably available to Tenant,
such policies shall be in occurrence form and cross liability and severability
of interests shall apply (with the exception of limits of liability).

          (c) Workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance in the
state in which the Premises are located. The total limits of the employer's
liability coverage shall not be less than the amounts required by applicable
law.

          (d) Such other appropriate endorsements or extensions of coverage as
would be deemed reasonable for a prudent landlord to require with respect to
other similar properties, provided they are available at a commercially
reasonable cost.

          (e) In the event that any deductible or otherwise self-insured
retention amounts are applicable with respect to any loss or claim under any of
the insurance described in this Article 13 or otherwise, all such amounts shall
be entirely paid by Tenant.


                                       -9-

<PAGE>   10


     13.4 All insurance required under this Article 13 and all renewals thereof
shall be issued by good and responsible companies rated not less than "A; 25
million policy holder surplus" by Best's Insurance Guide and qualified to do and
doing business in California. Each policy shall expressly provide that the
policy shall not be cancelled or altered without thirty (30) days' prior written
notice to Landlord and any designated Lender; provided that Tenant shall use its
reasonable efforts to have each policy expressly provide that it shall not be
cancelled or altered without sixty (60) days' prior written notice to Landlord
and any designated Lender. All insurance under Articles 13.3(a) and 13.3(b)
shall be primary and noncontributing with any insurance which may be carried by
Landlord. The term "Lender" means any institutional holder of a first or second
mortgage lien encumbering the Premises or any part thereof.

     13.5 The insurance required by this Lease, at the option of Tenant, may be
effected by blanket policies, umbrella policies or both issued to Tenant
covering the Premises and other properties owned or leased by Tenant, provided
that the policies otherwise comply with the provisions of this Lease and
allocate to the Premises the specified coverage. Tenant shall furnish to
Landlord or any Lender of Landlord certificates of insurers, evidencing the
existence of such policies and Tenant shall also provide copies certified by
Tenant of such policies in which Landlord has an insurable interest as soon as
such policies are received from insurance companies upon Landlord's request with
schedules thereto attached showing the amount of insurance afforded by such
policies applicable to the Premises. If Tenant fails to insure or fails to
furnish to Landlord upon notice to, do so any such certificate thereof as
required, Landlord shall have the right to effect such insurance for the benefit
of Tenant or Landlord or any Lender or any or all of them, and all premiums paid
by Landlord shall be payable by Tenant as additional rent on demand.

     13.6 Landlord covenants that any person entering the Premises to perform
physical work or activity on the Premises on behalf of Landlord shall be covered
by comprehensive general liability insurance with a combined single limit of not
less than $1,000,000, and by workmen's compensation insurance, if and to the
extent required by law. Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to assure that all
other persons entering on the Premises on behalf of Landlord are similarly
insured.

Article 14. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES

     14.1 Tenant shall not engage in any activity in, on or about the Premises
involving the generation, transportation, use, storage, spill, release or
disposal of Hazardous Substances without the express prior written consent of
Landlord and compliance in a timely manner (at Tenant's sole cost and expense)
with all Applicable Law (as defined in Article 15). "Hazardous Substances" as
used in this Lease shall mean any substance or material, or mixture or waste
containing such substance or material, regardless of quantity or concentration,
which is or may be (i) subject to

                                      -10-

<PAGE>   11


regulation under state, federal or local law, (ii) a basis for liability of
Landlord to any governmental agency or third party under any applicable statute,
regulation or common-law theory. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant may,
without Landlord's prior consent, but in compliance with all Applicable Law,
generate, transport, use, store or dispose of Hazardous Substances on the
Premises as is necessary to conduct Tenant's business as permitted by Article 7
on the Premises.

     14.2 [Intentionally omitted.]

     14.3 Tenant shall notify Landlord of any release of a Hazardous Substance
at the Premises, if and when Tenant determines that such release is required to
be reported to any local, state or federal governmental authority.

     14.4 Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold Landlord, its agents,
employees, lenders and ground lessor, if any, and the Premises, harmless from
and against any and all loss of rents and/or damages, liabilities, judgments,
costs, claims, liens, expenses, penalties, permits and attorney's and
consultant's fees arising out of or involving any Hazardous Substance or storage
tank brought onto the Premises by or for Tenant or under Tenant's control.
Tenant's obligations under this Article 14 shall include, but not be limited to,
the effects of any contamination or injury to person, property or the
environment created or suffered by Tenant, and the cost of investigation
(including consultant's and attorney's fees and testing), removal, remediation,
restoration, and/or abatement thereof, or of any contamination therein involved,
and shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. No
termination, cancellation or release agreement entered into by Landlord and
Tenant shall release Tenant from its obligations under this Lease with respect
to Hazardous Substances or storage tanks, unless specifically so agreed by
Landlord in writing at the time of such agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, specifically excluded from Tenant's indemnification obligation under
this Section 14.4 are the obligations of Bourns, Inc. arising under Section 31.8
of this Lease.

     14.5 If a release of a Hazardous Substance occurs for which Tenant is
responsible ("Hazardous Substance Condition"), Tenant shall make the
investigation and remediation thereof required by Applicable Law, and this Lease
shall continue in full force and effect, but subject to Landlord's rights under
Articles 21 and 22 hereof. If after sixty (60) days written notice to Tenant
from Landlord of Tenant's obligations under this Section Tenant has failed to
begin investigation and remediation of such Hazardous Substance Condition,
Landlord may, upon thirty (30) days written notice to Tenant, terminate this
Lease unless Tenant, in such thirty (30) days notice period, begins
investigation and remediation of such Hazardous Substance Condition and agrees
in writing to pay for the investigation and remediation of such Hazardous
Substance Condition at Tenant's sole expense and without reimbursement from
Landlord.


                                      -11-

<PAGE>   12



Article 15. TENANT'S COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

     15.1 Except as otherwise provided in this Lease, Tenant shall, at Tenant's
sole cost and expense, fully, diligently and in a timely manner, comply in all
respects with all "Applicable Law," which term is used in this Lease to include
all laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and directives or any state, federal
or local governmental authority relating in any manner to the Premises. Tenant
shall, within five (5) days after receipt of Landlord's written request,
provided Landlord with copies of all documents and information, including, but
not limited to, permits, registrations, manifests, applications, reports and
certificates, evidencing Tenant's compliance with any Applicable Law specified
by Landlord, and shall immediately upon receipt, notify Landlord in writing
(with copies of any documents involved) of any threatened or actual claim,
notice, citation, warning, complaint or report pertaining to or involving
failure by Tenant or the Premises to comply with any Applicable Law.

     15.2 Notwithstanding Section 15.1, Tenant shall have the right to contest
the validity or applicability to Tenant or to the Premises of any Applicable
Law, provided (i) the same is done at Tenant's sole cost and expense, (ii)
non-compliance with such Applicable Law will not subject the Premises or any
part thereof to sale or other liability by reason of such non-compliance, (iii)
such contest shall not subject Landlord to the risk of any criminal or civil
liability, (iv) Tenant shall provide security in form and amount reasonably
requested by Landlord, taking into account the factors listed in subclauses (i),
(ii) and (iii) above, and (v) Tenant complies with such Applicable Law promptly
after the conclusion of such contest, if determined adversely to Tenant.

Article 16. WAIVER OF SUBROGATION

     Any insurance carried by either party with respect to the Premises or
property therein or occurrences thereon shall, if it can be so written without
additional premium or with an additional premium which the other party agrees to
pay, include a clause or endorsement denying to the insurer rights of
subrogation against the other party to the extent rights have been waived by the
insured prior to occurrence of injury or loss. Each party, notwithstanding any
provisions of this Lease to the contrary, hereby waives any rights of recovery
against the other for injury or loss due to hazards covered by such insurance to
the extent of the indemnification received thereunder.

Article 17. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING

     17.1 Except to an entity controlling, controlled by or under common control
with Tenant (an "Affiliate"), or to a successor to Tenant by way of merger,
consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of Tenant's assets, Tenant
shall not either voluntarily or by operation of law assign, encumber, pledge or
otherwise

                                      -12-

<PAGE>   13


transfer or hypothecate all or any part of Tenant's leasehold estate hereunder,
or permit the Premises to be occupied by anyone other than Tenant or an
Affiliate, or Tenant's or such Affiliate's employees, or sublet the Premises or
any portion thereof, without Landlord's prior written consent, which shall not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however, that no one but Tenant,
an Affiliate, or a successor to Tenant by way of merger, consolidation or the
sale of all or substantially all of Tenant's assets, may exercise any Option to
extend the Term of this Lease, so that the occupancy of any sublessee shall be
limited to the balance remaining in the term during which such sublessee's
occupancy begins. No collection or acceptance of rent by Landlord from any
person shall be deemed a waiver of any provision of this Article 17, the
acceptance of any assignee or subtenant as the tenant hereunder or a release of
Tenant from any obligation under this Lease, whether theretofore or thereafter
accruing.

     17.2 If Tenant desires at any time to assign this Lease or to sublet the
Premises or any portion thereof, it shall first notify Landlord of its desire to
do so and shall submit in writing to Landlord (a) the name of the proposed
subtenant or assignee; (b) the nature of the proposed subtenant's or assignee's
business to be carried on in the Premises; (c) the terms and provisions of the
proposed sublease or assignment, and (d) such financial information as Landlord
may reasonably request concerning the proposed subtenant or assignee.

     17.3 At any time within fifteen (15) days after Landlord's receipt of the
information specified in Section 17.2 hereof, Landlord may by written notice to
Tenant elect to (a) consent to the proposed subletting or assignment, in which
event Tenant may within ninety (90) days thereafter, enter into a valid
assignment or sublease of the Premises or portion thereof with such proposed
assignee or sublessee, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the
information furnished by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to Section 17.2 hereof, or
(b) refuse to give its consent, specifying in reasonable detail the reason(s)
therefor.

     17.4 No consent by Landlord to any assignment or subletting by Tenant shall
relieve Tenant of any obligation to be performed by Tenant under this Lease,
whether accruing before or after such consent, assignment or subletting. The
consent by Landlord to any assignment or subletting shall not relieve Tenant or
any successor, assignee or subtenant of Tenant, from the obligation to obtain
Landlord's express written consent to any other assignment or subletting. Any
assignment or subletting which is not in compliance with this Article 17 shall
be void and, at the option of Landlord, constitute a default by Tenant
hereunder.

     17.5 Each assignee, other than Landlord, shall assume all obligations of
Tenant under this Lease and shall be and remain liable jointly and severally
with Tenant for the payment of the rent, and for the due performance of all the
terms, covenants, conditions and agreements herein contained on Tenant's part to
be

                                      -13-

<PAGE>   14


performed for the term of this Lease; provided, however, that the assignee shall
be liable to Landlord for rent only in the amount set forth in the assignment or
transfer. No assignment shall be binding on Landlord unless such assignee or
Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a counterpart of such assignment and an
instrument in recordable form which contains a covenant of assumption by the
assignee satisfactory in substance and form to Landlord, consistent with the
requirements of this Section 17.5, but the failure or refusal of the assignee to
execute such instrument of assumption shall not release or discharge the
assignee from its liability as set forth above.

     17.6 The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant or a mutual
cancellation hereof shall not work a merger, and shall at the option of
Landlord, terminate all or any existing subleases or subtenancies or operate as
an assignment to Landlord of such subleases or subtenancies.

     17.7 Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for Landlord's reasonable costs,
including, without limitation, its attorneys' fees, incurred in conjunction with
the processing and documentation of any assignment, subletting, transfer, change
of ownership or hypothecation of this Lease or Tenant's interest in and to the
Premises, or Tenant's request for Landlord's consent to any thereof.

Article 18. TRANSFER OF LANDLORD'S INTEREST

     In the event of any transfer or transfers of Landlord's interest in the
Premises, other than a transfer for security purposes only, the transferor shall
be automatically relieved of any and all obligations and liabilities on the part
of Landlord accruing solely under this Lease from and after the date of such
transfer.

Article 19. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

     19.1 If the whole of the Premises or so much thereof as to render the
balance unusable by Tenant shall be destroyed by casualty during the term of
this Lease, either party may terminate this tease upon fifteen (15) days'
written notice to the other party; provided, however, that all proceeds from
insurance and any deductible or self-insured retention amounts are paid over to
Landlord, or the Lender, if so required. If either party shall give such notice,
then this Lease shall terminate as of the date of such notice with the same
force and effect as if such date were the date originally established as the
expiration date hereof.

     19.2 If the Lease is not terminated pursuant to Section 19.1, and if the
proceeds of insurance are made available to Tenant, Tenant shall proceed to
restore the Premises to substantially the condition existing prior to such
casualty, and this Lease shall continue in full force and effect. Tenant shall
not be entitled to any reduction in or abatement of rent by reason of any such
damage.

                                      -14-

<PAGE>   15


     19.3 No damage, compensation or claim shall be payable by Landlord for
inconvenience, loss of business or annoyance arising from any repair or
restoration of any portion of the Premises.

     19.4 With respect to any damage which Landlord is obligated to repair or
elects to repair, Tenant, as a material inducement to Landlord entering into
this Lease, irrevocably waives and releases its rights under the provisions of
Sections 1932(2) and 1933(4) of the California Civil Code.

Article 20. EMINENT DOMAIN

     20.1 If the whole of the Premises or so much thereof as to render the
balance unusable by Tenant shall be taken under power of eminent domain, this
Lease shall automatically terminate as of the date of such condemnation, or as
of the date possession is taken by the condemning authority, whichever is
earlier. No award for any such partial or entire taking shall be apportioned,
and Tenant hereby assigns to Landlord any award which may be made in such taking
or condemnation, together with any and all rights of Tenant now or hereafter
arising in or to the same or any part thereof; provided, however, that nothing
contained herein shall be deemed to give Landlord any interest in or to require
Tenant to assign to Landlord any award made to Tenant for its relocation
expenses, the taking of personal property and fixtures belonging to Tenant, the
interruption of or damage to Tenant's business and/or for Tenant's unamortized
cost of leasehold improvements.

     20.2 In the event of a partial taking which does not result in a
termination of this Lease, rent shall be abated in proportion to that part of
the Premises made unusable by such partial taking.

     20.3 No temporary taking (which shall mean a taking for a period of six (6)
months or less), of the Premises and/or of Tenant's rights therein or under this
Lease shall terminate this Lease or give Tenant any right to any abatement of
rent hereunder. Any award made to Tenant by reason of any such temporary taking
shall belong entirely to Tenant and Landlord shall not be entitled to share
therein.

Article 21. DEFAULTS

     The occurrence of any one or more of the following shall constitute a
default by Tenant:

          (i)   The failure by Tenant to pay the Base Rent when due where such
failure continues for more than five (5) days after written notice to Tenant;
provided, that such notice shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any notice
required under Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure;


                                      -15-

<PAGE>   16

          (ii)  The abandonment, as a matter of law, of the Premises by Tenant;

          (iii) The failure by Tenant to observe or perform any other provision
of this Lease to be observed or performed by Tenant, where such failure
continues for thirty (30) days after written notice thereof by Landlord to
Tenant; provided, however, that if the nature of such default is such that the
same cannot reasonably be cured within such thirty (30) day period, Tenant shall
not be deemed to be in default if Tenant shall within such period commence such
cure and thereafter diligently prosecute the same to completion; and provided
further, that such notice shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any notice
required under Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure;

          (iv)  If Tenant becomes insolvent as defined in the Federal Bankruptcy
Code, admits in writing its insolvency or its present or prospective inability
to pay its debts as they become due, is unable to or does not pay all or any
material portion (in number or dollar amount) of its debts as they become due,
permits or suffers a judgment to exist against it which affects Tenant's ability
to conduct its business in the ordinary course (unless enforcement thereof is
stayed pending appeal), makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any
class thereof, for purposes of effecting a moratorium upon or extension or
composition of its debts, or commences any bankruptcy, reorganization or
insolvency proceeding, or other proceeding under any federal, state or other law
for the relief of debtors;

          (v)   If Tenant fails to obtain the dismissal, within sixty (60) days
after the commencement thereof, of any bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency
proceeding, or other proceeding under any federal, state or other law for the
relief of debtors, instituted against it by one or more third parties, or fails
actively to oppose any such proceeding, or, in any such proceeding, defaults or
files an answer admitting the material allegations upon which the proceeding was
based or alleges its willingness to have an order for relief entered or its
desire to seek liquidation, reorganization or adjustment of any of its debts; or

          (vi)  If any receiver, trustee or custodian is appointed to take
possession of all or any substantial portion of the assets of Tenant, or any
committee of Tenant's creditors, or any class thereof, is formed for the purpose
of monitoring or investigating the financial affairs of Tenant or enforcing such
creditors' rights.

Article 22. REMEDIES

     In the event of any such default, then, in addition to any other remedies
available to Landlord at law or in equity:


                                      -16-

<PAGE>   17


     22.1 Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease and all rights
of Tenant hereunder by giving Tenant written notice of such election to
terminate, in which event Landlord may recover from Tenant:

          (i)   the worth at the time of award of any unpaid rent which has been
earned at the time of such termination; plus

          (ii)  the worth at the time of award of any amount by which the unpaid
rent which would have been earned after termination until the time of award
exceeds the amount of such rental loses which Tenant proves could have been
reasonably avoided; plus

          (iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid
rent for the balance of the term after the time of the award exceeds the amount
of such rental loss which Tenant proves could be reasonably avoided; plus

          (iv)  any other amount, including attorney's fees and administrative
expenses, necessary to compensate Landlord for all the detriment proximately
caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which
in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom; and

          (v)   at Landlord's election, such other amounts in addition to or in
lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by applicable law.

For purposes of this Section 22.1, rent, other than the Base Rent, shall be
computed on the basis of the average monthly amount thereof accruing during the
24-month period immediately prior to default, except that if it becomes
necessary to compute such rental before such 24-month period has occurred, then
on the basis of the average monthly amount during such shorter period. As used
in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above, the "worth at the time of award" shall be
computed by allowing interest at the rate specified in Section 22.5 hereof. For
purposes of subsection (iii) above, the "worth at the time of award" shall be
computed by discounting such amount at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco at the time of award plus one percent (1%).

     22.2 Landlord shall have the right, with or without terminating this Lease,
to re-enter the Premises, remove all persons and property from the Premises
pursuant to legal proceedings or any notice provided by law, and without
terminating this Lease, either recover all rent as it becomes due or relet the
Premises or any part thereof. Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to relet the
Premises. The rentals actually received by Landlord from such reletting shall be
applied first, to the payment of any indebtedness other than rent due hereunder
from Tenant to Landlord; second, to the costs of such reletting; third, to the
costs of any alterations and repairs to the Premises; fourth, to the payment of
rent due and unpaid

                                      -17-

<PAGE>   18


hereunder, together with interest thereon and late charges attributable thereto;
and the balance, if any, shall be held by Landlord and applied in payment of
future rent as the same may become due and payable hereunder. Should any
reletting result in the actual payment of rentals at less than the rent payable
during that month by Tenant hereunder, Tenant shall pay such deficiency to
Landlord immediately upon demand therefor by Landlord.

     22.3 No re-entry or taking possession of the Premises by Landlord pursuant
to this Article 22 shall be construed as an election to terminate this Lease
unless a written notice of such intention be given to Tenant or unless the
termination thereof be decreed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Notwithstanding any reletting without termination by Landlord, Landlord may at
any time after such reletting elect to terminate this Lease.

     22.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere herein,
if Tenant shall fail to make payment of any obligation under this Lease within
five (5) days after the same becomes due and payable, Tenant acknowledges that
Landlord will incur extra administrative expenses (i.e., in addition to expenses
incident to receipt of timely payment) in connection with the delinquency in
payment. Because, the actual damages suffered by Landlord in incurring such
extra administrative expenses would be impracticable or extremely difficult to
ascertain, it is agreed that three percent (3%) of the amount of the delinquent
payment shall be the amount of damages to which Landlord is entitled, upon such
default, in compensation for such extra administrative expenses. Therefore,
Tenant shall, in such event, without further notice, pay to Landlord as
Landlord's sole monetary recovery to cover such extra administrative expenses,
liquidated damages in the amount of three percent (3%) of the amount of such
delinquent payments. In addition to the foregoing, Tenant acknowledges that
Landlord may incur actual damages, in the event of delinquency in payment, in
the amount of the actual cost of funds borrowed by Landlord to replace the
amount of the delinquent payment hereunder. Tenant agrees to pay such actual
damages, to the extent actually incurred by Landlord, to Landlord upon demand.
Nothing contained in this Section 22.4 shall be construed as an express or
implied agreement by Landlord to forbear the collection of any delinquent
payment or be construed as in any way giving Tenant the right, express or
implied, to fail to make timely payment hereunder. The right of Landlord to
receive payment of such liquidated and actual damages, and receipt thereof, are
without prejudice to the right of Landlord to collect such delinquent payments
and any other amounts provided to be paid hereunder, or to declare a default
hereunder.

     22.5 Any amount due from Tenant to Landlord which is not paid when due
shall bear interest at the lesser of twelve (12%) percent per annum or the
maximum rate or rates from time to time permitted by applicable federal or state
law from the date such payment is due until paid, but the payment of such
interest shall not excuse or cure the failure to make such payment when due.

                                      -18-

<PAGE>   19



     22.6 If Tenant or Landlord shall bring any action for any relief against
the other, declaratory or otherwise, arising out of or under this Lease,
including any suit by Landlord for the recovery of rent or possession of the
Premises, the losing party shall pay the successful party a reasonable sum for
attorneys' fees in such suit. Such attorneys' fees shall be deemed to have
accrued as of the commencement of such action and shall be paid whether or not
such action is prosecuted to judgment.

Article 23. SURRENDER OF PREMISES; REMOVAL OF PROPERTY

     23.1 The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant, or a mutual
termination thereof, shall not work a merger, and shall at the option of
Landlord, operate as an assignment to it of any or all subleases or subtenancies
affecting the Premises.

     23.2 Upon the expiration of the term of this Lease, or upon any earlier
termination of this Lease, Tenant shall quit and surrender possession of the
Premises to Landlord in as good order and condition as the same are now or
hereafter may be improved by Landlord or Tenant, ordinary wear and tear and
repairs which are Landlord's obligation excepted, and shall, without expense to
Landlord, remove or cause to be removed from the Premises all debris and
rubbish, all furniture, equipment, business and trade fixtures, free-standing
cabinet work, movable partitions and other articles of personal property owned
by Tenant and all similar articles of any other persons claiming under Tenant
unless Landlord exercises its option to have any subleases or subtenancies
assigned to it, and Tenant shall repair all damage to the Premises resulting
from such removal.

     23.3 Whenever Landlord shall re-enter the Premises pursuant to Article 22
hereof or as otherwise provided in this Lease, any property of Tenant not
removed by Tenant upon the expiration of the term of this Lease (or within
forty-eight (48) hours after a termination by reason of Tenant's default) shall
be considered abandoned and Landlord may remove any or all of such items and
dispose of the same in any manner or store the same in a public warehouse or
elsewhere for the account and at the expense and risk of Tenant, and if Tenant
shall fail to pay the cost of storing any such property after it has been stored
for a period of thirty (30) days or more, Landlord may sell any or all of such
property at public or private sale, in such manner and at such times and places
as Landlord, in its sole discretion, may deem proper, without notice to or
demand upon Tenant for the payment of all or any part of such charges or the
removal of any such property. Landlord shall apply the proceeds of such sale
first, to the cost and expense of such sale, including, without limitation,
attorneys' fees incurred in connection therewith second, to the payment of the
cost of or charges for storing any such property; third, to the payment of any
other sums of money which may then or thereafter be due to Landlord from Tenant
under any of the terms hereof; and fourth, the balance, if any, to Tenant.


                                      -19-

<PAGE>   20



     23.4 All fixtures, alterations, additions, improvements and/or
appurtenances attached or built into the Premises prior to or during the Term
hereof, whether by Landlord at its expense or at the expense of Tenant or both,
shall be and remain part of the Premises and shall not be removed by Tenant at
the end of the Term hereof unless otherwise expressly provided for in this
Lease. Any items installed by Tenant without Landlord's consent, as permitted
under Section 9.1, shall be removed by Tenant at the end of the Term, if so
required by Landlord unless Landlord has given a contrary indication in writing
to Tenant at the time of the installation of such items. Such fixtures,
equipment, alterations, additions, improvements and/or appurtenances shall
include, without limitation, floor coverings, drapes, paneling, molding, doors,
plumbing systems, electrical systems, lighting systems, silencing equipment,
communication systems, all fixtures and outlets for the systems mentioned above
and for all telephone, radio, telegraph and television purposes, and any special
flooring or ceiling installations.

Article 24. WAIVER OF DAMAGES FOR RE-ENTRY

     Tenant hereby waives all claims for damages that may be caused by
Landlord's re-entering and taking possession of the Premises or removing and
storing the property of Tenant as herein provided, and Tenant shall indemnify
and hold harmless Landlord therefrom. No such re-entry shall be considered or
construed to be a forcible entry.

Article 25. HOLDING OVER

     25.1 If Tenant holds over after the term hereof, with or without the
express or implied consent of Landlord, such tenancy shall be from month to
month only, and not a renewal hereof or an extension for any further term, and
in such case base rent shall be payable at the rate of one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the rent then payable pursuant to Article 3 hereof, and such month to
month tenancy shall be subject to every other term, covenant and agreement
contained herein. Nothing contained in this Article 25 shall be construed as a
consent by Landlord to any holding over by Tenant and Landlord expressly
reserves the right to require Tenant to surrender possession of the Premises to
Landlord as provided in Article 23 hereof upon the expiration of the term of
this Lease or other termination of this Lease.

     25.2 Tenant acknowledges that Landlord will use reasonable efforts to
re-let the Premises on reasonable terms and conditions as soon as practicable
following the expiration or sooner termination of the term of this Lease. In
that context, Landlord may well enter into agreements with third parties
providing for the occupancy of the Premises, or a portion thereof, upon such
expiration or sooner termination or as soon thereafter as Landlord has estimated
that it will be able to refurbish the Premises, and that the failure by Tenant
to surrender possession of the Premises upon such expiration or sooner
termination may render Landlord unable to fulfill its obligations

                                      -20-

<PAGE>   21


to such third party. Accordingly, if Tenant fails to surrender possession of the
Premises upon such expiration or sooner termination, Tenant shall indemnify and
hold Landlord harmless from and against any and all costs, losses, claims or
liabilities, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, arising under any
claim made by any such third party based, in whole or in part, on Landlord's
failure to deliver possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, to such
third party.

Article 26. SUBORDINATION

     26.1 This Lease is and at all times shall be subject and subordinate to any
ground or underlying leases, mortgages, trust deeds or like encumbrances, which
may now or hereafter affect the real property of which the Premises are a part,
and to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions
of any such lease, mortgage, trust deed or like encumbrance. This clause shall
be self-operative and no further instrument of subordination shall be required
by any ground or underlying lessor or by any mortgagee or beneficiary, affecting
any lease or the real property of which the Premises are a part. In confirmation
of such subordination, Tenant shall execute promptly any certificate that
Landlord may request. The subordination of this Lease to any such lease,
mortgage, trust deed or like encumbrance shall, however, be subject to the
following:

          (i)  In the event of the sale of the Premises upon foreclosure or upon
the exercise a power of sale, or by transfer in lieu of foreclosure or such
exercise, Tenant will upon written request attorn to the purchaser and recognize
the purchaser, or transferee, as the Landlord under this Lease.

          (ii) Notwithstanding such subordination, Tenant's right to quiet
possession of the Premises and all other Tenant's rights under this Lease, shall
not be disturbed so long as Tenant shall pay the rent and observe and perform
all of the provisions of this Lease to be observed and performed by Tenant
unless this Lease is terminated pursuant to specific provisions relating thereto
contained herein.

     26.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Landlord agrees, at
the request of Tenant, to use its reasonable efforts to obtain from Security
Pacific National Bank a recognition and non-disturbance agreement in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to Tenant, and Landlord shall cooperate with
Tenant as may be necessary to secure such agreement.

Article 27. ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES

     Tenant shall at any time and from time to time upon not less than twenty
(20) days' prior notice by Landlord, execute, acknowledge and deliver to
Landlord a statement in writing certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in
full force and effect (or if there have been modifications, that the same is in
full force and effect as

                                      -21-

<PAGE>   22


modified and stating the modifications), stating the dates to which the basic
rent, additional rent and other charges have been paid in advance, if any,
stating whether or not to the best knowledge of Tenant, Landlord is in default
in the performance of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in this
Lease and, if so, specifying each such default of which Tenant may have
knowledge, and responding to such other questions or statements of fact as
Landlord or any ground or underlying lessor or any mortgagee or beneficiary
shall reasonably request. Tenant's failure to deliver such statement within such
time shall constitute an acknowledgment by Tenant that this Lease is unmodified
and in full force and effect except as may be represented to the contrary by
Landlord, no more than one monthly installment of Base Rent has been paid in
advance, Landlord is not in default in the performance of any covenant,
agreement or condition contained in this Lease and the other matters set forth
in such request, if any, are true and correct. Any such statement delivered
pursuant to this Article 27 may be relied upon by any prospective purchaser of
the fee of the Premises or any mortgagee or other like encumbrancer thereof or
any assignee of any such encumbrancer upon the Premises. Landlord shall
reimburse Tenant for Tenant's reasonable costs, including, without limitation,
its attorneys' fees, incurred in conjunction with the processing and
documentation of any estoppel certificate.

Article 28. RIGHT OF LANDLORD TO PERFORM

     If Tenant shall fail to pay any sum of money, other than rent, required to
be paid by it hereunder or shall fail to perform any other act on its part to be
performed hereunder, and such failure shall continue beyond any applicable grace
period set forth in Article 21 or 22 hereof, Landlord may, but shall not be
obligated so to do, and without waiving or releasing Tenant from any obligation
of Tenant, make any such payment or perform any such other act. Tenant shall,
promptly and upon demand therefor by Landlord, reimburse Landlord for all sums
so paid by Landlord and all necessary incidental costs, together with interest
thereon at the rate of twelve (12%) percent from the date of such payment by
Landlord, and Landlord shall have the same rights and remedies in the event of
the failure by Tenant to pay such amounts as Landlord would have in the event of
a default by Tenant in the payment of rent.






Article 29. NOTICES

     All notices and consents which Landlord or Tenant may be required, or may
desire, to serve or confer on the other must be in writing and may be served, as
an alternative to personal service, by mailing the same by either (a) registered
or

                                      -22-

<PAGE>   23


certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or (b) Federal
Express or similar overnight courier delivery service, addressed as follows:

    If to Landlord:           Bourns, Inc.
                              1200 Columbia Avenue
                              Riverside, California 92507
                              Attn: Larry L. White,
                                    Executive Vice President

    With a copy to:           Bourns, Inc.
                              1200 Columbia Avenue
                              Riverside, California 92507
                              Attn: William Becker, Esq.,
                                    Chief Legal Counsel

    If to Tenant:             Precision Monolithics, Inc.
                              1500 Space Park Drive
                              Santa Clara, California 95052
                              Attn: President

    With copies to:           Analog Devices, Inc.
                              One Technology Way
                              Norwood, Massachusetts 02062
                              Attn: Chief Financial Officer

    And:                      Philip D. Stevenson, Esq.
                              Hale and Dorr
                              60 State Street
                              Boston, Massachusetts 02109

or, in each case, addressed to such other address or addresses as either
Landlord or Tenant may for itself from time to time designate to the other as
provided herein. Any such notice so mailed shall be deemed effective upon
receipt or refusal of tender for receipt.

Article 30. QUIET ENJOYMENT

     Tenant, upon paying the basic rent, additional rent and other charges
herein provided for and observing and keeping the covenants, agreements and
conditions of this Lease on its part to be kept, shall lawfully and quietly
hold, occupy and enjoy the Premises during the term of this Lease without
hindrance or molestation of anyone claiming by, through or under Landlord,
subject, however, to the matters herein set forth.


                                      -23-

<PAGE>   24


Article 31. INTERPRETATION

     31.1 The words "Landlord" and "Tenant," as used herein, shall include the
plural as well as the singular. Words used in neuter gender include the
masculine and feminine and words in the masculine or feminine gender include the
neuter. The headings or titles to the articles of this Lease are not a part of
this Lease and shall have no effect upon the construction or interpretation of
any part thereof.

     31.2 The obligations imposed upon Tenant hereunder shall be joint and
several.

     31.3 Subject to the provisions of Article 17 hereof relating to assignment
and subletting, this Lease is intended to and does bind and inure to the benefit
of the heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns of any and all
of the parties hereto.

     31.4 Time is of the essence of this Lease.

     31.5 This Lease shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the
laws of the State of California.

     31.6 If any term or provision of this Lease, the deletion of which would
not adversely affect the receipt of any material benefit by either party
hereunder, shall be held invalid or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder
of this Lease shall not be affected thereby and each term and provision of this
Lease shall be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.

     31.7 The waiver by Landlord or Tenant of any breach of any term, covenant
or condition herein contained shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such term,
covenant or condition as to any subsequent breach of the same or of any other
term, covenant or condition herein contained. The subsequent acceptance of rent
by Landlord shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding breach by Tenant
of any term, covenant or condition of this Lease, other than the failure of
Tenant to pay the particular rent so accepted, regardless of Landlord's
knowledge of such preceding breach at the time of acceptance of such rent.

     31.8 This instrument, along with any exhibits and attachments or other
documents affixed hereto or referred to herein, constitutes the entire and
exclusive agreement between Landlord and Tenant relating to the Premises, and
this agreement and said exhibits and attachments and other documents may be
altered, amended or revoked only by an instrument in writing signed by the party
to be charged thereby. All prior or contemporaneous oral agreements,
understandings and/or practices relating to the Premises are merged in or
revoked by this agreement. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease,
Bourns, Inc. ("Bourns")

                                      -24-

<PAGE>   25


acknowledges and affirms its obligation to remediate existing soil and
groundwater contamination on the Premises pursuant to the Stock Purchase
Agreement by and between Bourns and Analog Devices, Inc., dated August 8, 1990
(the "SPA"), and agrees that to the extent that the terms and obligations of
Bourns pursuant to the SPA are inconsistent with the terms and obligations of
the Lease, the terms and obligations of the SPA shall supersede and govern the
terms and obligations of this Lease. Tenant agrees to cooperate with and aid and
assist Bourns as reasonably necessary in fulfilling Bourns' obligations under
the SPA, at no out-of-pocket cost or expense, or liability to Tenant.

     31.9 This Lease may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which
shall constitute an original and all of which shall be one and the same
agreement.

     31.10 In the event that any claim is made by one party against the other
pursuant to this Lease, such claim shall be made on a bona fide, good faith
determination by the party making such claim.

     31.11 In the event of a sale of the Premises by Bourns or an Affiliate of
Bourns to an unaffiliated party, Tenant shall have the right to terminate this
Lease by notice to Landlord.

     Submission of this Lease by either party shall not bind either party in any
manner and no lease or other obligation on the part of either party shall arise,
until this Lease is executed and delivered by both parties.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Lease as of the
date first above written.

Landlord:                                      Tenant:

Bourns, Inc.                                   Precision Monolithics, Inc.


By /s/ Larry L. White                          By Alan King
   -------------------------------               -------------------------------
   Title:  Exec. Vice President                  Title: President


By                                             By
   -------------------------------               -------------------------------
   Title                                         Title


Address:                                       Address:

- ---------------------------------              ---------------------------------



                                      -25-

<PAGE>   26


- ---------------------------------              ---------------------------------


- ---------------------------------              ---------------------------------


                                      -26-

<PAGE>   27


                                   Schedule A
                                   ----------

                             COMSTOCK ROAD PROPERTY


     All that certain real property situate in the City of Santa Clara, County
of Santa Clara, State of California, described as follows

     Portion of Lot 6 as shown on Map accompanying the final report of Referee
in the Partition action had in the District County of the State of California in
and for the County of Santa Clara, entitled "William C. Parker, et al, vs.
Richard M. Kifer, et al, Case No. 3906", described as follows:

     Beginning at the intersection of the Easterly line of Kenneth Street, 60
feet wide, as established by the Deed to the City of Santa Clara, recorded
November 13, 1968, Book 8331, Official Records, page 499, with the Northerly
line of the parcel of land described in the Deed to Foremost-McKesson, Inc.,
recorded June 5, 1968, Book 8146, Official Records, page 520; thence from said
point of beginning S. 89[degree] 08' 35" E. along said Northerly line 395 feet
to the Northeasterly corner of said Foremost McKesson, Inc., parcel of land;
thence S. 0[degree] 51' 25" W. along the Easterly line of said parcel of land,
242.43 feet to the Northerly line Comstock Street as established by Deed to the
County of Santa Clara, recorded November 1, 1967, Book 7913, Official Records,
page 233; thence along said line of Comstock Street, N. 89[degree] 07' 32" W,
183.54 feet; thence continuing along said line of Comstock Street Westerly on
curve to the right, with a radius of 15.111 feet, through a Central angle of
0[degree] 36' 44", for an arc distance of 161.51 feet; thence along the Easterly
line of Kenneth Street Northwesterly along a compound curve to the right, with a
radius of 50 feet, through a central angle of 90[degree] 45' 59" for an arc
distance of 79.21 feet; thence continuing along said line of Kenneth Street, N.
0[degree] 59' 55" E. 193.15 feet to the point of beginning.


                                      -27-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT FOR 1500 SPACE PARK DRIVE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   Exhibit 10-15
                                                                   -------------

                                                                  COMPOSITE COPY
                                     LEASE



     THIS  LEASE,  dated  August  8,  1990,  is made  between  Bourns,  Inc.,  a
California  corporation  ("Landlord"),   and  Precision  Monolithics,   Inc.,  a
California corporation ("Tenant").

                                    Recitals:
                                    --------

     WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement dated August
8, 1990 (the "SPA") by and between Landlord and Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog"),
Analog is acquiring all of the stock of Tenant; and

     WHEREAS,  the Premises have been conveyed to Landlord with the intention of
leasing such  Premises  back to Tenant,  upon the terms and  conditions  of this
Lease; and

     WHEREAS,  Landlord has agreed in the SPA to retain all responsibilities and
obligations to continue and complete a "VOC Remediation  Program" (as defined in
the SPA); and

     WHEREAS,  pursuant to the SPA,  Landlord  has retained  responsibility  and
liability  for  certain  "Excluded  Liabilities"  (as  defined  in the SPA) with
respect to obligations for all of the costs, charges, obligations, penalties and
liabilities arising out of or in connection with "Environmental Liabilities" (as
defined in the SPA); and

     WHEREAS,   the  parties  are  entering  into  this  Lease   Agreement,   as
contemplated by the SPA.

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the mutual covenants and
agreements  set  forth  herein  and in the  SPA  and  other  good  and  valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the
parties hereby agree as follows:


Article 1.  PREMISES

     Landlord  hereby  leases to Tenant and Tenant  hereby hires from  Landlord,
subject  to all terms and  conditions  of this  Lease,  those  certain  premises
commonly known as 1500 Space Park Drive, Santa Clara,  California  consisting of
approximately  5 acres and  including  two  buildings  containing  approximately
72,800 square feet of


<PAGE>   2



rentable area, all building improvements and fixtures attached thereto and all
easements appurtenant thereto (the "Premises").

     A legal description of the Premises is attached hereto as Schedule A.


Article 1A. ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     1A.1 Landlord acknowledges its continuing obligations under the SPA for the
Excluded Liabilities with respect to the Environmental Liabilities and the VOC
Remediation Program (all as defined in the SPA and incorporated herein by
reference). To the extent that an obligation of Tenant under this Lease is in
conflict with or is inconsistent with an obligation of Landlord under the SPA
with respect to the Excluded Liabilities, with respect to the Environmental
Liabilities and the VOC Remediation Program, the provisions of the SPA shall
prevail over the provisions of the Lease, and Landlord's obligation shall
supersede and be substituted for the conflicting or inconsistent obligation of
the Tenant.

     1A.2 Landlord has disclosed to Tenant the presence of asbestos and
asbestos-containing materials ("Asbestos") on and in the Premises. Landlord
represents and warrants to Tenant that the condition of the Asbestos on the
Premises is not in violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation as of the
date of this Lease. To the extent that Tenant's use of the Premises causes the
condition of the Asbestos to be in violation of any applicable  legal
requirement, Tenant shall be responsible for all costs, expenses and liabilities
associated with the encapsulation or removal of the affected Asbestos. Except to
the limited extent set forth in the immediately preceding sentence, Landlord
shall be responsible for the costs and expenses incurred by Tenant at any time
during the Term of the Lease, or thereafter, in connection with the removal or
encapsulation of the Asbestos. Landlord acknowledges that Tenant may incur such
costs and expenses as a result of any of the following:

     (a) any action by any governmental authority requiring the encapsulation or
removal of any Asbestos from the Premises;

     (b) any action by any governmental authority in lieu of removal or
encapsulation, requiring cessation or curtailment of Tenant's business activity
in all or any portion of the Premises as a result of the presence of Asbestos.

     1A.3 Tenant shall have the right to terminate this Lease by notice to
Landlord upon the occurrence of any of the following:

     (a) any action by any governmental authority requiring cessation or
curtailment of Tenant's business activity in all or any portion of the

                                      -2-

<PAGE>   3



         Premises as a result of any Environmental Liabilities or the presence
         of Asbestos on or in the Premises; or

     (b) any breach by Landlord of any of its obligations under this Article 1A.

     Tenant shall give Landlord notice of the occurrence of an event giving
Tenant the right to terminate. If Landlord fails to cure such condition within
thirty (30) days after such written notice, then Tenant may terminate this Lease
by notice to Landlord; provided, however, that if the nature of such default is
such that the same cannot reasonably be cured within such thirty (30) day
period, Tenant shall not have the right to terminate if Landlord shall within
such period commence such cure and thereafter diligently prosecute the same to
completion.

     1A.4 Landlord shall reimburse Tenant for any and all capital costs and
expenses incurred by Tenant, in excess of $407,500.00, in connection with the
improvements to the holding tank, vault and pipeline for the wastewater fluoride
treatment system serving the Premises ("the Facility") as may be necessary to
bring the Facility into full compliance with any applicable laws and regulations
in effect as of the date of this Lease; provided, that all such improvements are
made within twelve (12) months after the date of this Lease. In the event Tenant
is required to obtain any permits for the Facility, Landlord shall cooperate
with Tenant in obtaining all such permits.

     1A.5 Landlord represents and warrants to Tenant that, as of the date of
this Lease, the ventilation ducts on or in the Premises are in compliance with
applicable laws and regulations. In the event of any breach of the foregoing
representation, Landlord shall pay for all costs and expenses incurred by Tenant
in bringing such ducts into compliance with all such laws and regulations.

     1A.6 Landlord and its agents and employees shall have the right to enter
the Premises for purposes of complying with its obligations under the SPA and
this Article 1A; provided, however, that Landlord shall at all times use its
reasonable efforts to avoid or minimize any interference or disruption to
Tenant's business as a result of such entry. Tenant agrees to Cooperate with and
aid and assist Landlord as reasonably necessary in fulfilling Landlord's
obligations under the SPA, as referenced in Section 1A.1, at no out-of-pocket
cost or expense, or liability to Tenant.


Article 2. TERM

     2.1 The Initial Term of this Lease, unless sooner terminated as provided
herein, shall be five (5) years, commencing on August 8, 1990 (the "Commencement
Date").


                    -3-

<PAGE>   4



     2.2 Provided there exists no uncured default by Tenant under this Lease,
Tenant shall have the option to extend this Lease for three (3) successive terms
of five (5) years each (the "Option Terms"). Tenant shall exercise its option
for each Option Term, if at all, by written notice to be given to Landlord no
later than nine months prior to expiration of the Initial Term or, if Tenant at
the time of such extension occupies the Premises pursuant to the earlier
exercise of an Option Term, the then-existing Option Term. All references in
this Lease to the Term of this Lease shall mean, where appropriate, the Initial
Term as extended by the exercise of the Option Terms. All of the terms and
provisions of this Lease shall be applicable equally during any Option Term,
except that effective on the commencement date of the second Option Term (the
first day of the eleventh year of the Lease), the provisions of Article 1A and
Section 28A shall be of no further force and effect. Tenant agrees, upon the
request of Landlord, to reexecute the Lease without such provisions.


Article 3. RENT

     3.1 Base Rent for the Initial Term shall be Nine Hundred and Twenty
Thousand Dollars ($920,000.00) per annum. Base Rent shall be payable in twelve
(12) equal installments on the first day of each month in advance, except that
the portion of Base Rent payable for the fraction of the month starting with the
Commencement Date shall be paid on the Commencement Date, prorated on the basis
of the actual number of days in said month. If the Initial or any Option Term
hereof ends on a day other than the last day of a month, then the portion of the
Base Rent for the month during which said expiration occurs shall be prorated on
the basis of the actual number of days in said month.

     3.2 Base Rent for each Option Term shall be the fair rental value of the
Premises at the inception of such Option Term based on the terms and conditions
of this Lease. The fair rental value for each Option Term shall be determined by
the following process: At least six (6) months prior to the commencement of an
Option Term, Tenant and Landlord shall each notify the other of the Base Rent it
believes represents the fair rental value of the Premises. If at least four (4)
months prior to the commencement of an Option Term, the parties have not agreed
in writing on a Base Rent amount, Landlord and Tenant shall determine the fair
rental value of the Premises by MAI appraisal conducted by Coldwell Banker, or
mutually agreeable equivalent, based on the terms and conditions of this Lease
without, however, taking into account any improvements or alterations to the
Premises constructed at the expense, exclusive of insurance proceeds, of Tenant.
The Base Rent for such Option Term shall be the amount previously proposed by
either party that is closer in amount to the appraised rental value. In the
event that neither Landlord's nor Tenant's estimate of the fair rental value is
closer to the appraised rental value, the Base Rent shall be equal to the
appraised rental value. Neither party shall disclose to the appraiser its
estimate of the fair rental value. The fees and reimbursable expenses

                                      -4-

<PAGE>   5



of such appraiser shall be paid by the party whose estimate prevails. If for any
reason the Base Rent has not been ascertained by the commencement of the Option
Term, Tenant shall pay on account of Base Rent an amount equal to the average of
the two proposed Base Rents until such time as the actual Base Rent shall have
been established.

     3.3 Throughout the term of this Lease, Tenant shall pay, as additional
rent, all other amounts of money and charges required to be paid by Tenant under
this Lease, whether or not such amounts of money or charges are designated
"additional rent." As used in this Lease, "rent" shall mean and include all Base
Rent and additional rent payable by Tenant in accordance with this Lease.

     3.4 Tenant shall pay all Base Rent under Section 3.1 or Section 3.2 hereof
to Landlord, monthly, in advance, on or before the first day of each and every
calendar month during the term of this Lease and shall pay all additional rent
promptly when due to the person entitled to receive the same. All rent payable
to Landlord shall be paid without deduction or offset, except as otherwise
provided herein, in lawful money of the United States of America at the address
for Landlord set forth on the signature page hereof, or to such other person or
at such other place as Landlord may from time to time designate in writing.


Article 4. NET LEASE

     It is the intention of Landlord and Tenant that, except as otherwise
provided herein, the Base Rent payable by Tenant to Landlord during the entire
Term of this Lease shall be absolutely net of all costs and expenses incurred in
connection with the management, operation, maintenance and repair of the
Premises and every part thereof in accordance with this Lease. Subject to
Landlord's obligations under Articles 1A, 11 and 14 hereof, Tenant shall manage,
operate, maintain and repair the Premises and keep the Premises in compliance
with all applicable laws and regulations in accordance with this Lease and shall
pay all costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith before such costs or
expenses become delinquent.


Article 5. TAXES

     5.1 Tenant shall pay, prior to delinquency, as additional rent, all
"Property Taxes" (as hereinafter defined) that accrue during or are allocable to
the term of this Lease. Landlord shall promptly deliver to Tenant any statements
or bills received by Landlord with respect to Property Taxes. Tenant shall
receive the benefit of any discount for early payment of such Property Taxes,
even if such taxes are not paid early, if Tenant is prevented from paying the
taxes early due to Landlord's failure to deliver the bill to Tenant in a timely
fashion. No later than ten (10) days after

                                      -5-

<PAGE>   6



Landlord delivers to Tenant a request for evidence of payment of any such
amount,  Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a receipt or other  evidence
satisfactory to Landlord that such bill or statement has been paid.

     5.2 "Property Taxes" shall mean all taxes, assessments, excises, levies,
fees and charges (and any tax, assessment, excise, levy, fee or charge levied
wholly or partly in lieu thereof or as a substitute therefor or as an addition
thereto) of every kind and description, general or special, ordinary or
extraordinary, foreseen or unforeseen, secured or unsecured, whether or not now
customary or within the contemplation of Landlord or Tenant, that are levied,
assessed, charged, confirmed or imposed by any public or government authority on
or against, or otherwise with respect to, (i) the Premises or any part thereof
or any personal property used in connection with the Premises; (ii) any rent
payable under this Lease, including, without limitation, any gross income tax or
excise tax, levied by any public or government authority with respect to the
receipt of any rent with respect to the Premises, but only to the extent no
exemption, exclusion or abatement is available to Landlord, at no cost or
expense to Landlord, with respect to such tax, or (ii) the possession, leasing,
operation, management, maintenance, alternation, repair, use or occupancy by
Tenant of the Premises, together with all interest, fines and other charges
assessed for the late payment of any thereof. Property Taxes shall not include
net income (measured by the income of Landlord from all sources or from sources
other than solely rent under this Lease), franchise, documentary transfer,
inheritance or capital stock taxes of Landlord, unless levied or assessed after
the Commencement Date against Landlord in whole or in part expressly in lieu of
or as a substitute for any Property Taxes.

     5.3 Tenant shall have the right to contest any Property Taxes imposed
against the Premises or any part thereof, provided (i) the same is done at
Tenant's sole cost and expense, (ii) non-payment of such Property Tax will not
subject the Premises or any part thereof to sale or other liability by reason of
such non-payment, (iii) such contest shall not subject Landlord to the risk of
any criminal or civil liability, (iv) Tenant shall provide a bond in form and
substance as required by applicable law, and (v) Tenant pays the amount
determined to be due promptly after the conclusion of such contest. Landlord
agrees to execute and deliver to Tenant any and all documents reasonably
required, and to cooperate with Tenant in every respect, in any such contest,
but without any cost or expense to Landlord. Landlord agrees not to intervene,
compromise or prejudice Tenant's tax abatement or contest case, provided that
Tenant remains at all times in full compliance with this Article 5.


Article 6. SERVICES

     Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and expense, arrange and pay for all
utilities required for the conduct of its business. Landlord shall not be in
default hereunder or be liable for any damage or loss directly or indirectly
resulting from, nor shall the

                                      -6-

<PAGE>   7



rent be abated or a constructive or other eviction be deemed to have occurred by
reason of, the installation, use or interruption of use of any equipment in
connection with the furnishing of any of the foregoing services, any failure to
furnish or delay in furnishing any such services, whether such failure or delay
is caused by accident or any condition beyond the control of Landlord or Tenant
or by the making of repairs or improvements to the Premises, or any limitation,
curtailment, rationing or restriction on use of any utility, whether such
results from mandatory governmental restriction or voluntary compliance with
governmental guidelines,  unless, with respect to each of the foregoing
conditions, it is due solely to the act or omission of Landlord or its agents or
employees.


Article 7. USE OF PREMISES

     Tenant shall use and occupy the Premises for the manufacturing of
semiconductors and activities reasonably related or ancillary thereto and shall
not use or occupy the Premises for any other purpose without the prior written
consent of the Landlord, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed. Tenant's use shall at all times be in compliance with the provisions of
Article 15 hereof. Tenant shall not commit, or suffer to be committed, any act
which (a) is in violation of any insurance requirement which is a condition to
the validity of any insurance policy with respect to the Premises, (b) is in
violation of the terms of any insurance policy, or (C) may cause a cancellation
of any such insurance for the Premises.


Article 8. ACCEPTANCE OF PREMISES

     Subject to the obligations of Landlord under Article 1A, the Premises shall
be let in their present condition, i.e. "as is," and subject to any facts which
would be revealed by a survey or physical inspection thereof, the state of title
as it presently exists and all laws, ordinances and restrictions applicable
thereto. Tenant acknowledges that neither Landlord nor any agent of Landlord has
made any representation or warranty with respect to the Premises or with respect
to the suitability or fitness of the Premises or the conduct of Tenant's
business or for any other purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence,
Landlord does represent that the use of the Premises by Landlord's immediate
predecessor in title was in material conformance with all laws, ordinances and
regulations relating to zoning and land use applicable to the Premises. The
taking of possession or use of the Premises by Tenant for any purpose shall
conclusively establish that the Premises were at such time in satisfactory
condition and in conformity with the provisions of this Lease in all respects.
Nothing contained in this Article 8 shall affect the commencement of the Term of
this Lease or the obligation of Tenant to pay rent hereunder as provided in
Article 3 hereof.

                                      -7-

<PAGE>   8




Article 9.  ALTERATIONS

     9.1 Tenant shall not make any alterations, additions or improvements in or
to the Premises or any part thereof, or attach any fixtures or equipment
thereto, without Landlord's prior written consent. Landlord's approval shall not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed but may be subject to such conditions as
Landlord may reasonably require. Tenant shall not be required to restore any
alterations, additions or improvements made by Tenant during the Term, unless
such restoration is required by Landlord at the time of such alteration,
addition or improvement. In addition, Tenant may make such alterations,
additions or improvements without Landlord's consent, but with notice to
Landlord, if the total per-project cost of such alterations, additions or
improvements is $200,000.00 or less, and such alterations, additions or
improvements will not affect the structural elements of the Premises, detract
from the fair rental or market value of the Premises or increase the costs of
the remediation contemplated in Article 1A hereof. Tenant will comply with all
applicable codes, laws, ordinances, rules or regulations in connection with any
alterations,  additions or improvements.  All  alterations,  additions or
improvements in or to the Premises shall be made by Tenant at Tenant's sole cost
and expense, shall be made expeditiously once work is begun and shall be
completed in a good and workmanlike manner using first class materials. No part
of the Premises shall be demolished unless Landlord has received an acceptable
surety bond assuring reconstruction. Tenant shall, at its expense, provide
builder's risk insurance naming Landlord as an insured during the period of any
construction work.

     9.2 All alterations, additions or improvements requiring Landlord's consent
shall be as follows:

     (a) Tenant shall submit to Landlord, for Landlord's written approval,
complete plan and specifications for all work to be done by Tenant. Such plans
and specifications shall be prepared by licensed architect(s) and engineer(s)
approved by Landlord, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed,
shall comply with all applicable codes, ordinances, rules and regulations, shall
be in a form sufficient to secure the approval of all government authorities
with jurisdiction over the Premises, and shall be otherwise satisfactory to
Landlord in Landlord's reasonable discretion. Landlord's failure to respond to a
request for plan approval within thirty (30) days shall be deemed approval of
such plans.

     (b) Tenant shall, through Tenant's licensed contractor, perform the work
substantially in accordance with the plans and specifications approved in
writing by Landlord. All material changes in the plans and specifications
approved by Landlord shall be subject to Landlord's prior written approval. Any
such change shall be based upon revised plans and specifications prepared by the
licensed architect(s) and

                                      -8-

<PAGE>   9



engineer(s) approved by Landlord, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

     (c) Tenant shall pay the entire cost of all work (including the cost of all
utilities, permits, fees, taxes, and property and liability insurance premiums
in connection therewith) required to make the alterations, additions or
improvements. Under no circumstances shall Landlord be liable to Tenant for any
damage, loss, cost or expense incurred by Tenant on account of any plans and
specifications, contractors or subcontractors, design of any work, construction
of any work, or delay in completion of any work.

     9.3 All improvements, alterations, additions and fixtures (other than trade
fixtures), whether temporary or permanent in character, made in or to the
Premises by Tenant, shall remain the property of Tenant until the expiration or
earlier termination of this Lease, whereupon they shall become part of the
Premises and Landlord's property. All movable furniture, equipment, trade
fixtures, computers, office machines and other personal property of Tenant shall
remain the property of Tenant. Upon the expiration or earlier termination of
this Lease, Tenant shall, at Tenant's expense, remove all such movable
furniture, equipment, trade fixtures, computers, office machines and other
personal property from the Premises and repair all damage caused by such
removal; provided, however, that Tenant shall not be obligated to make any
repairs to wall or floor coverings or otherwise make repairs if Landlord intends
to otherwise demolish or renovate the Premises so that for all practical
purposes, the repairs would be in vain. This Section 9.3 shall survive the
expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.


Article 10. LIENS

     Tenant shall promptly discharge or bond off any liens and encumbrances
whatsoever, including mechanics' liens, arising out of any work performed,
materials furnished or obligations incurred by or on behalf of Tenant. Tenant
shall indemnify and hold harmless Landlord from and against any such lien or
claim or action thereon, and reimburse Landlord promptly upon demand therefor by
Landlord for costs of suit and reasonable attorneys' fees incurred by Landlord
in connection with any such claim or actions.


Article 11. MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR

     11.1 Landlord shall, throughout the Term, at Landlord's sole cost and
expense (a) make all structural repairs to the Premises including, without
limitation, repairs to the roof, the exterior and load bearing walls, the
structural columns and the foundation, and (b) to the extent required within six
(6) months from the date of this

                                      -9-

<PAGE>   10



Lease, make all capital replacements (not including overhauls or upgrades) to
the  plumbing,  mechanical,  electrical  and HVAC systems and  equipment
(specifically excluding filters and scrubbers) existing in the Premises as of
the date of this Lease, but only to the extent the cost of each such capital
replacement exceeds $10,000. Landlord shall not be responsible for the matters
listed in (a) or (b) above to the extent any such structural repair or capital
replacement is made necessary by any act or omission of Tenant, its agents or
employees.

     11.2 Except as provided in Section 11.1, Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole
cost and expense, and at all times, keep and maintain the Premises and every
part thereof, in good working order and condition and shall make all normal and
ordinary repairs and replacements which may be necessary to keep the Premises in
good working order and condition, subject to ordinary wear and tear. Tenant, in
keeping the Premises in good order, condition and repair, shall exercise and
perform good maintenance practices. Tenant shall at all times maintain the
current slope, grade and drainage of the land included in the Premises. Landlord
and Tenant expressly waive the benefit of Section 1942 of the California Civil
Code, as the same may be amended in the future, or any statutory provision
enacted in lieu thereof.


Article 12. ENTRY BY LANDLORD

     Landlord shall have the right to enter the Premises at any time during an
emergency and at reasonable times upon prior notice to (i) inspect the Premises,
(ii) exhibit the Premises to prospective purchasers or lenders, or, within 6
months prior to the expiration of the Term, prospective tenants, (iii) determine
whether Tenant is performing all of Tenant's obligations under any portion of
this Lease, (iv) post notices of nonresponsibility, (v) perform any inspection
or action requested or ordered by any governmental authority and (vi) make any
repairs to the Premises which, following requisite notice hereunder, Tenant has
failed to perform. Except to the extent caused by the gross negligence or wilful
misconduct of Landlord or Landlord's agents or employees, Tenant waives all
claims for damages for any injury or inconvenience to or interference with
Tenant's business, any loss of occupancy or quiet enjoyment of the Premises or
any other loss occasioned by such entry; provided that Landlord shall have used
reasonable efforts to avoid or minimize any disturbance or disruption to
Tenant's business.


Article 13. LIMITATIONS ON LANDLORD'S LIABILITY; INDEMNITY;
       INSURANCE

     13.1 Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant under this Lease, nor shall
Tenant be entitled to terminate this Lease or to any abatement of rent, for any
damage to or loss or theft of any property or for any bodily or personal injury,
illness or death of

                                      -10-

<PAGE>   11



any person in, on or about the Premises or for any loss to Tenant's business
arising at any time and from any cause whatsoever (except to the extent caused
by the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of Landlord or its agents or
employees). Tenant waives all claims against Landlord arising from any liability
described in this Section 13.1 (except to the extent caused by the gross
negligence or wilful misconduct of Landlord or its agents or employees). This
Section 13.1 shall not affect Landlord's obligations under Article 1A.

     13.2 Subject to Article 1A and Section 11.1 hereof, Tenant shall indemnify,
hold harmless and defend Landlord, its officers, directors, stockholders,
partners, employees, agents and representatives and any other party acting on
behalf of Landlord against all claims, demands, causes of action, liabilities,
damages, losses, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees and
disbursements, arising from or related to any use or occupancy of the Premises,
or any condition of the Premises, or any default in the performance of Tenant's
obligations, or any damage to any property (including property of employees and
invitees of Tenant) or any bodily or personal injury, illness or death of any
person (including employees and invitees of Tenant) occurring in, on or about
the Premises or any part thereof arising at any time and from any cause
whatsoever (except to the extent caused by the negligence or misconduct of
Landlord or its agents or employees) or occurring outside the Premises when such
damage, bodily or personal injury, illness or death is caused by any act or
omission of Tenant or its agents, officers, employees, contractors, invitees or
licensees. This Section 13.2 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination
of this Lease with respect to any damage, bodily or personal injury, illness or
death occurring prior to such termination.

     13.3 Tenant shall at all times, at its sole cost and expense, obtain, or
cause Analog to obtain, pay for and maintain in full force and effect such
insurance policy or policies as Landlord may from time to time reasonably
request, including the following:

     (a) "All-Risk" property (including boiler and machinery) insurance, on a
replacement cost basis covering the Premises in an amount no less than the full
replacement cost thereof, excluding insurance coverage for the peril of
earthquake, including the costs of demolition and increased cost of construction
and contingent liability arising out of the need to comply with any building
code, law or regulation, to the extent the loss is due to direct physical loss
to the Premises from an insured peril. Loss covered by such insurance shall be
adjusted by Tenant subject to approval of Landlord, such approval not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed, and the proceeds of such insurance shall be
payable solely to Landlord and Tenant or any Lender designated as mortgagee or
loss payee. Landlord shall be designated as named insured in such policies and
any Lender designated by Landlord shall be included as mortgagee or loss payee
relative to all real property. All risk property policies may provide for
reasonable deductibles (which at the inception of this Lease

                                      -11-

<PAGE>   12



is $100,000). To the extent Landlord maintains insurance coverage against the
peril of earthquake with respect to the Premises, Tenant agrees to reimburse
Landlord for the annual premium, up to a maximum of $13,000.00 per year.

     (b) Commercial general liability in respect to occurrences arising out of
or relating to the operation, maintenance and use of the Premises, and umbrella
liability insurance covering Tenant and Landlord as named insureds against
claims arising out of liability for bodily injury and death and personal injury
and advertising injury and property damage occurring in and about the Premises
and otherwise resulting from any acts and operations of Tenant and Landlord with
limits not less than the existing or future limits of such insurance generally
purchased by Tenant with respect to any other premises or operations of Tenant
but in no event less than a total combined single limit of $10,000,000 per
occurrence and $50,000,000 annual general aggregate. Such insurance may provide
for a reasonable deductible (which at the inception of this Lease is $100,000).
If commercially and reasonably available to Tenant, such policies shall be in
occurrence form and cross liability and severability of interests shall apply
(with the exception of limits of liability)

     (c) Workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance in the state
in which the Premises are located. The total limits of the employer's liability
coverage shall not be less than the amounts required by applicable law.

     (d) Such other appropriate endorsements or extensions of coverage as would
be deemed reasonable for a prudent landlord to require with respect to other
similar properties, provided they are available at a commercially reasonable
cost.

     (e) In the event that any deductible or otherwise self-insured retention
amounts are applicable with respect to any loss or claim under any of the
insurance described in this Article 13 or otherwise, all such amounts shall be
entirely paid by Tenant.

     13.4 All insurance required under this Article 13 and all renewals thereof
shall be issued by good and responsible companies rated not less than "A; 25
million policy holder surplus" by Best's Insurance Guide and qualified to do and
doing business in California. Each policy shall expressly provide that the
policy shall not be cancelled or altered without thirty (30) days' prior written
notice to Landlord and any designated Lender; provided that Tenant shall use its
reasonable efforts to have each policy expressly provide that it shall not be
cancelled or altered without sixty (60) days' prior written notice to Landlord
and any designated Lender. All insurance under Articles 13.3(a) and 13.3(b)
shall be primary and noncontributing with any insurance which may be carried by
Landlord. The term "Lender" means any institutional holder of a first or second
mortgage lien encumbering the Premises or any part thereof.


                                      -12-

<PAGE>   13



     13.5 The insurance required by this Lease, at the option of Tenant, may be
effected by blanket policies, umbrella policies or both issued to Tenant
covering the Premises and other properties owned or leased by Tenant, provided
that the policies otherwise comply with the provisions of this Lease and
allocate to the Premises the specified coverage. Tenant shall furnish to
Landlord or any Lender of Landlord certificates of insurers, evidencing the
existence of such policies and Tenant shall also provide copies certified by
Tenant of such policies in which Landlord has an insurable interest as soon as
such policies are received from the insurance companies upon Landlord's request
with schedules thereto attached showing the amount of insurance afforded by such
policies applicable to the Premises. If Tenant fails to insure or fails to
furnish to Landlord upon notice to do so any such certificate thereof as
required, Landlord shall have the right to effect such insurance for the benefit
of Tenant or Landlord or any Lender or any or all of them, and all premiums paid
by Landlord shall be payable by Tenant as additional rent on demand.

     13.6 Landlord covenants that any person entering the Premises to perform
physical work or activity on the Premises on behalf of Landlord shall be covered
by comprehensive general liability insurance with a combined single limit of not
less than $1,000,000, and by workmen's compensation insurance, if and to the
extent required by law. Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to assure that all
other persons entering on the Premises on behalf of Landlord are similarly
insured.


Article 14. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES

     14.1 Tenant shall not engage in any activity in, on or about the Premises
involving the generation, transportation, use, storage, spill, release or
disposal of Hazardous Substances without the express prior written consent of
Landlord and compliance in a timely manner (at Tenant's sole cost and expense)
with all Applicable Law (as defined in Article 15). "Hazardous Substances" as
used in this Lease shall mean any substance or material, or mixture or waste
containing such substance or material, regardless of quantity or concentration,
which is or may be (i) subject to regulation under state, federal or local law,
(ii) a basis for liability of Landlord to any governmental agency or third party
under any applicable statute, regulation or common-law theory. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, Tenant may, without Landlord's prior consent, but in compliance
with all Applicable Law, generate, transport, use, store or dispose of Hazardous
Substances on the Premises as is necessary to conduct business, as permitted by
Article 7, on the Premises.

     14.2 [Intentionally omitted.]

     14.3 As soon as practicable after the date hereof, Landlord shall prepare
and deliver to Tenant a list of certain Hazardous Substances, which shall be
attached to this Lease as SCHEDULE B. Tenant shall, following receipt of such
SCHEDULE B, during

                   -13-

<PAGE>   14



the Term of this Lease, notify Landlord of (a) any Hazardous Substances not
identified on SCHEDULE B which are located, stored or used by Tenant on the
Premises, and (b) any material increases in the quantity of any Hazardous
Substance listed on SCHEDULE B. Tenant shall use reasonable efforts to notify
Landlord prior to ordering or purchasing any Hazardous Substance not listed on
SCHEDULE B. In addition, Tenant shall notify Landlord of any release of a
Hazardous Substance at the Premises, if and when Tenant determines that such
release is required to be reported to any local, state or federal governmental
authority.

     14.4 Subject to Article 1A hereof, Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend
and hold Landlord, its agents, employees, lenders and ground lessor, if any, and
the Premises, harmless from and against any and all loss of rents and/or
damages, liabilities, judgments, costs, claims, liens, expenses, penalties,
permits and attorney's and consultant's fees arising out of or involving any
Hazardous Substance or storage tank brought onto the Premises by or for Tenant
or under Tenant's control. Tenant's obligations under this Article 14 shall
include, but not be limited to, the effects of any contamination or injury to
person, property or the environment created or suffered by Tenant, and the cost
of investigation (including consultant's and attorney's fees and testing),
removal, remediation,  restoration,  and/or abatement thereof, or of any
contamination therein involved, and shall survive the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease. No termination, cancellation or release agreement
entered into by Landlord and Tenant shall release Tenant from its obligations
under this Lease with respect to Hazardous Substances or storage tanks, unless
specifically so agreed by Landlord in writing at the time of such agreement.

     14.5 Subject to Article 1A, if a release of a Hazardous Substance occurs
for which Tenant is responsible ("Hazardous Substance Condition"), Tenant shall
make the investigation and remediation thereof required by Applicable Law, and
this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, but subject to Landlord's
rights under Articles 21 and 22 hereof. If after sixty (60) days written notice
to Tenant from Landlord of Tenant's obligations under this Section Tenant has
failed to begin investigation and remediation of such Hazardous Substance
Condition, Landlord may, upon thirty (30) days' written notice to Tenant,
terminate this Lease unless Tenant, in such thirty (30) days notice period,
begins investigation and remediation of such Hazardous Substance Condition and
agrees in writing to pay for the investigation and remediation of such Hazardous
Substance Condition at Tenant's sole expense and without reimbursement from
Landlord.


Article 15. TENANT'S COMPLIANCE WITH LAW

     15.1 Except as otherwise provided in this Lease, Tenant shall, at Tenant's
sole cost and expense, fully, diligently and in a timely manner, comply in all
respects with all "Applicable Law," which term is used in this Lease to include
all laws, rules,

                                      -14-

<PAGE>   15



regulations,  ordinances, and directives or any state, federal or local
governmental authority relating in any manner to the Premises. Tenant shall,
within five (5) days after receipt of Landlord's written request, provide
Landlord with copies of all documents and information, including, but not
limited to, permits, registrations,  manifests, applications, reports and
certificates, evidencing Tenant's compliance with any Applicable Law specified
by Landlord, and shall immediately upon receipt, notify Landlord in writing
(with copies of any documents involved) of any threatened or actual claim,
notice, citation, warning, complaint or report pertaining to or involving
failure by Tenant or the Premises to comply with any Applicable Law.

     15.2 Notwithstanding Section 15.1, Tenant shall have the right to contest
the validity or applicability to Tenant or to the Premises of any Applicable
Law, provided (i) the same is done at Tenant's sole cost and expense, (ii)
non-compliance with such Applicable Law will not subject the Premises or any
part thereof to sale or other liability by reason of such non-compliance, (iii)
such contest shall not subject Landlord to the risk of any criminal or civil
liability, (iv) Tenant shall provide security in form and amount reasonably
requested by Landlord, taking into account the factors listed in subclauses (i),
(ii) and (iii) above, and (v) Tenant complies with such Applicable Law promptly
after the conclusion of such contest, if determined adversely to Tenant.


Article 16. WAIVER OF SUBROGATION

     Any insurance carried by either party with respect to the Premises or
property therein or occurrences thereon shall, if it can be so written without
additional premium or with an additional premium which the other party agrees to
pay, include a clause or endorsement denying to the insurer rights of
subrogation against the other party to the extent rights have been waived by the
insured prior to occurrence of injury or loss. Each party, notwithstanding any
provisions of this Lease to the contrary, hereby waives any rights of recovery
against the other for injury or loss due to hazards covered by such insurance to
the extent of the indemnification received thereunder.


Article 17. ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING

     17.1 Except to an entity controlling, controlled by or under common control
with Tenant (an "Affiliate"), or to a successor to Tenant by way of merger,
consolidation or the sale of all or substantially all of Tenant's assets, Tenant
shall not either voluntarily or by operation of law assign, encumber, pledge or
otherwise transfer or hypothecate all or any part of Tenant's leasehold estate
hereunder, or permit the Premises to be occupied by anyone other than Tenant or
an Affiliate, or Tenant's or such Affiliate's employees, or sublet the Premises
or any portion thereof,

                                      -15-

<PAGE>   16



without Landlord's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed; provided, however, that no one but Tenant, an Affiliate, or
a successor to Tenant by way of merger, consolidation or the sale of all or
substantially all of Tenant's assets, may exercise any Option to extend the Term
of this Lease, so that the occupancy of any sublessee shall be limited to the
balance remaining in the term during which such sublessee's occupancy begins. No
collection or acceptance of rent by Landlord from any person shall be deemed a
waiver of any provision of this Article 17, the acceptance of any assignee or
subtenant as the tenant hereunder or a release of Tenant from any obligation
under this Lease, whether theretofore or thereafter accruing.

     17.2 If Tenant desires at any time to assign this Lease or to sublet the
Premises or any portion thereof, it shall first notify Landlord of its desire to
do so and shall submit in writing to Landlord (a) the name of the proposed
subtenant or assignee; (b) the nature of the proposed subtenant's or assignee's
business to be carried on in the Premises; (c) the terms and provisions of the
proposed sublease or assignment, and (d) such financial information as Landlord
may reasonably request concerning the proposed subtenant or assignee.

     17.3 At any time within fifteen (15) days after Landlord's receipt of the
information specified in Section 17.2 hereof, Landlord may by written notice to
Tenant elect to (a) consent to the proposed subletting or assignment, in which
event Tenant may within ninety (90) days thereafter, enter into a valid
assignment or sublease of the Premises or portion thereof with such proposed
assignee or sublessee, upon the terms and conditions set forth in the
information furnished by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to Section 17.2 hereof, or
(b) refuse to give its consent, specifying in reasonable detail the reason(s)
therefor.

     17.4 No consent by Landlord to any assignment or subletting by Tenant shall
relieve Tenant of any obligation to be performed by Tenant under this Lease,
whether accruing before or after such consent, assignment or subletting. The
consent by Landlord to any assignment or subletting shall not relieve Tenant or
any successor, assignee or subtenant of Tenant, from the obligation to obtain
Landlord's express written consent to any other assignment or subletting. Any
assignment or subletting which is not in compliance with this Article 17 shall
be void and, at the option of Landlord, constitute a default by Tenant
hereunder.

     17.5 Each assignee, other than Landlord, shall assume all obligations of
Tenant under this Lease and shall be and remain liable jointly and severally
with Tenant for the payment of the rent, and for the due performance of all the
terms, covenants, conditions and agreements herein contained on Tenant's part to
be performed for the term of this Lease; provided, however, that the assignee
shall be liable to Landlord for rent only in the amount set forth in the
assignment or transfer. No assignment shall be binding on Landlord unless such
assignee or Tenant shall deliver to

                                      -16-

<PAGE>   17



Landlord a counterpart of such assignment and an instrument in recordable form
which contains a covenant of assumption by the assignee satisfactory in
substance and form to Landlord, consistent with the requirements of this Section
17.5, but the failure or refusal of the assignee to execute such instrument of
assumption shall not release or discharge the assignee from its liability as set
forth above.

     17.6 The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant or a mutual
cancellation hereof shall not work a merger, and shall at the option of
Landlord, terminate all or any existing subleases or subtenancies or operate as
an assignment to Landlord of such subleases or subtenancies.

     17.7 Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for Landlord's reasonable costs,
including, without limitation, its attorneys' fees, incurred in conjunction with
the processing and documentation of any assignment, subletting, transfer, change
of ownership or hypothecation of this Lease or Tenant's interest in and to the
Premises, or Tenant's request for Landlord's consent to any thereof.


Article 18. TRANSFER OF LANDLORD'S INTEREST

     In the event of any transfer or transfers of Landlord's interest in the
Premises, other than a transfer for security purposes only, the transferor shall
be automatically relieved of any and all obligations and liabilities on the part
of Landlord accruing solely under this Lease from and after the date of such
transfer.


Article 19. DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION

     19.1 If the whole of the Premises or so much thereof as to render the
balance unusable by Tenant shall be destroyed by casualty during the term of
this Lease, either party may terminate this Lease upon fifteen (15) days'
written notice to the other party; provided, however, that all proceeds from
insurance and any deductible or self-insured retention amounts are paid over to
Landlord, or the Lender, if so required. If either party shall give such notice,
then this Lease shall terminate as of the date of such notice with the same
force and effect as if such date were the date originally established as the
expiration date hereof.

     19.2 If the Lease is not terminated pursuant to Section 19.1, and if the
proceeds of insurance are made available to Tenant, Tenant shall proceed to
restore the Premises to substantially the condition existing prior to such
casualty, and this Lease shall continue in full force and effect. Tenant shall
not be entitled to any reduction in or abatement of rent by reason of any such
damage.


                                      -17-

<PAGE>   18



     19.3 No damage, compensation or claim shall be payable by Landlord for
inconvenience, loss of business or annoyance arising from any repair or
restoration of any portion of the Premises.

     19.4 With respect to any damage which Landlord is obligated to repair or
elects to repair, Tenant, as a material inducement to Landlord entering into
this Lease, irrevocably waives and releases its rights under the provisions of
Sections 1932(2) and 1933(4) of the California Civil Code.


Article 20. EMINENT DOMAIN

     20.1 If the whole of the Premises or so much thereof as to render the
balance unusable by Tenant shall be taken under power of eminent domain, this
Lease shall automatically terminate as of the date of such condemnation, or as
of the date possession is taken by the condemning authority, whichever is
earlier. No award for any such partial or entire taking shall be apportioned,
and Tenant hereby assigns to Landlord any award which may be made in such taking
or condemnation, together with any and all rights of Tenant now or hereafter
arising in or to the same or any part thereof; provided, however, that nothing
contained herein shall be deemed to give Landlord any interest in or to require
Tenant to assign to Landlord any award made to Tenant for its relocation
expenses, the taking of personal property and fixtures belonging to Tenant, the
interruption of or damage to Tenant's business and/or for Tenant's unamortized
cost of leasehold improvements.

     20.2 In the event of a partial taking which does not result in a
termination of this Lease, rent shall be abated in proportion to that part of
the Premises made unusable by such partial taking.

     20.3 No temporary taking (which shall mean a taking for a period of six (6)
months or less), of the Premises and/or of Tenant's rights therein or under this
Lease shall terminate this Lease or give Tenant any right to any abatement of
rent hereunder. Any award made to Tenant by reason of any such temporary taking
shall belong entirely to Tenant and Landlord shall not be entitled to share
therein.


Article 21. DEFAULTS

     The occurrence of any one or more of the following shall constitute a
default by Tenant:

        (i) The failure by Tenant to pay the Base Rent when due where such
failure continues for more than five (5) days after written notice to Tenant;
provided,

                                      -18-

<PAGE>   19



that such notice shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any notice required
under Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure;

       (ii) The abandonment, as a matter of law, of the Premises by Tenant;

       (iii) The failure by Tenant to observe or perform any other provision
of this Lease to be observed or performed by Tenant, where such failure
continues for thirty (30) days after written notice thereof by Landlord to
Tenant; provided, however, that if the nature of such default is such that the
same cannot reasonably be cured within such thirty (30) day period, Tenant shall
not be deemed to be in default if Tenant shall within such period commence such
cure and thereafter diligently prosecute the same to completion; and provided
further, that such notice shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any notice
required under Section 1161 of the California Code of Civil Procedure;

       (iv) If Tenant becomes insolvent as defined in the Federal Bankruptcy
Code, admits in writing its insolvency or its present or prospective inability
to pay its debts as they become due, is unable to or does not pay all or any
material portion (in number or dollar amount) of its debts as they become due,
permits or suffers a judgment to exist against it which affects Tenant's ability
to conduct its business in the ordinary course (unless enforcement thereof is
stayed pending appeal), makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any
class thereof, for purposes of effecting a moratorium upon or extension or
composition of its debts, or commences any bankruptcy, reorganization or
insolvency proceeding, or other proceeding under any federal, state or other law
for the relief of debtors;

       (v) If Tenant fails to obtain the dismissal, within sixty (60) days
after the commencement thereof, of any bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency
proceeding, or other proceeding under any federal, state or other law for the
relief of debtors, instituted against it by one or more third parties, or fails
actively to oppose any such proceeding, or, in any such proceeding, defaults or
files an answer admitting the material allegations upon which the proceeding was
based or alleges its willingness to have an order for relief entered or its
desire to seek liquidation, reorganization or adjustment of any of its debts; or

       (vi) If any receiver, trustee or custodian is appointed to take
possession of all or any substantial portion of the assets of Tenant, or any
committee of Tenant's creditors, or any class thereof, is formed for the purpose
of monitoring or investigating the financial affairs of Tenant or enforcing such
creditors' rights.



                   -19-

<PAGE>   20



Article 22.  REMEDIES

     In the event of any such default, then, in addition to any other remedies
available to Landlord at law or in equity:

     22.1 Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease and all rights
of Tenant hereunder by giving Tenant written notice of such election to
terminate, in which event Landlord may recover from Tenant:

          (i) the worth at the time of award of any unpaid rent which has been
earned at the time of such termination; plus

          (ii) the worth at the time of award of any amount by which the unpaid
rent which would have been earned after termination until the time of award
exceeds the amount of such rental loss which Tenant proves could have been
reasonably avoided; plus

          (iii) the worth at the time of award of the amount by which the unpaid
rent for the balance of the term after the time of the award exceeds the amount
of such rental loss which Tenant proves could be reasonably avoided; plus

          (iv) any other amount, including attorney's fees and administrative
expenses, necessary to compensate Landlord for all the detriment proximately
caused by Tenant's failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which
in the ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom; and

         (v) at Landlord's election, such other amounts in addition to or in
lieu of the foregoing as may be permitted from time to time by applicable law.

For purposes of this Section 22.1, rent, other than the Base Rent, shall be
computed on the basis of the average monthly amount thereof accruing during the
24-month period immediately prior to default, except that if it becomes
necessary to compute such rental before such 24-month period has occurred, then
on the basis of the average monthly amount during such shorter period. As used
in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) above, the "worth at the time of award" shall be
computed by allowing interest at the rate specified in Section 22.5 hereof. For
purposes of subsection (iii) above, the "worth at the time of award" shall be
computed by discounting such amount at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve
Bank of San Francisco at the time of award plus one percent (1%).

     22.2 Landlord shall have the right, with or without terminating this Lease,
to re-enter the Premises, remove all persons and property from the Premises
pursuant to legal proceedings or any notice provided by law, and without
terminating this Lease, either recover all rent as it becomes due or relet the
Premises or any part

                                      -20-

<PAGE>   21



thereof. Landlord shall use reasonable efforts to relet the Premises. The
rentals actually received by Landlord from such reletting shall be applied
first, to the payment of any indebtedness other than rent due hereunder from
Tenant to Landlord; second, to the costs of such reletting; third, to the costs
of any alterations and repairs to the Premises; fourth, to the payment of rent
due and unpaid hereunder, together with interest thereon and late charges
attributable thereto; and the balance, if any, shall be held by Landlord and
applied in payment of future rent as the same may become due and payable
hereunder. Should any reletting result in the actual payment of rentals at less
than the rent payable during that month by Tenant hereunder, Tenant shall pay
such deficiency to Landlord immediately upon demand therefor by Landlord.

     22.3 No re-entry or taking possession of the Premises by Landlord pursuant
to this Article 22 shall be construed as an election to terminate this Lease
unless a written notice of such intention be given to Tenant or unless the
termination  thereof be decreed by a court of  competent  jurisdiction.
Notwithstanding any reletting without termination by Landlord, Landlord may at
any time after such reletting elect to terminate this Lease.

     22.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere herein,
if Tenant shall fail to make payment of any obligation under this Lease within
five (5) days after the same becomes due and payable, Tenant acknowledges that
Landlord will incur extra administrative expenses (i.e., in addition to expenses
incident to receipt of timely payment) in connection with the delinquency in
payment. Because the actual damages suffered by Landlord in incurring such extra
administrative expenses would be impracticable or extremely difficult to
ascertain, it is agreed that three percent (3%) of the amount of the delinquent
payment shall be the amount of damages to which Landlord is entitled, upon such
default, in compensation for such extra administrative expenses. Therefore,
Tenant shall, in such event, without further notice, pay to Landlord as
Landlord's sole monetary recovery to cover such extra administrative expenses,
liquidated damages in the amount of three percent (3%) of the amount of such
delinquent payments. In addition to the foregoing, Tenant acknowledges that
Landlord may incur actual damages, in the event of delinquency in payment, in
the amount of the actual cost of funds borrowed by Landlord to replace the
amount of the delinquent payment hereunder. Tenant agrees to pay such actual
damages, to the extent actually incurred by Landlord, to Landlord upon demand.
Nothing contained in this Section 22.4 shall be construed as an express or
implied agreement by Landlord to forbear the collection of any delinquent
payment or be construed as in any way giving Tenant the right, express or
implied, to fail to make timely payment hereunder. The right of Landlord to
receive payment of such liquidated and actual damages, and receipt thereof, are
without prejudice to the right of Landlord to collect such delinquent payments
and any other amounts provided to be paid hereunder, or to declare a default
hereunder.


                   -21-

<PAGE>   22



     22.5 Any amount due from Tenant to Landlord which is not paid when due
shall bear interest at the lesser of twelve (12%) per annum or the maximum rate
or rates from time to time permitted by applicable federal or state law from the
date such payment is due until paid, but the payment of such interest shall not
excuse or cure the failure to make such payment when due.

     22.6 If Tenant or Landlord shall bring any action for any relief against
the other, declaratory or otherwise, arising out of or under this Lease,
including any suit by Landlord for the recovery of rent or possession of the
Premises, the losing party shall pay the successful party a reasonable sum for
attorneys' fees in such suit. Such attorneys' fees shall be deemed to have
accrued as of the commencement of such action and shall be paid whether or not
such action is prosecuted to judgment.


Article 23. SURRENDER OF PREMISES; REMOVAL OF PROPERTY

     23.1 The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease by Tenant, or a mutual
termination thereof, shall not work a merger, and shall at the option of
Landlord, operate as an assignment to it of any or all subleases or subtenancies
affecting the Premises.

     23.2 Upon the expiration of the term of this Lease, or upon any earlier
termination of this Lease, Tenant shall quit and surrender possession of the
Premises to Landlord in as good order and condition as the same are now or
hereafter may be improved by Landlord or Tenant, ordinary wear and tear and
repairs which are Landlord's obligation excepted, and shall, without expense to
Landlord, remove or cause to be removed from the Premises all debris and
rubbish, all furniture, equipment, business and trade fixtures, free-standing
cabinet work, movable partitions and other articles of personal property owned
by Tenant and all similar articles of any other persons claiming under Tenant
unless Landlord exercises its option to have any subleases or subtenancies
assigned to it, and Tenant shall repair all damage to the Premises resulting
from such removal.

     23.3 Whenever Landlord shall re-enter the Premises pursuant to Article 22
hereof or as otherwise provided in this Lease, any property of Tenant not
removed by Tenant upon the expiration of the term of this Lease (or within
forty-eight (48) hours after a termination by reason of Tenant's default) shall
be considered abandoned and Landlord may remove any or all of such items and
dispose of the same in any manner or store the same in a public warehouse or
elsewhere for the account and at the expense and risk of Tenant, and if Tenant
shall fail to pay the cost of storing any such property after it has been stored
for a period of thirty (30) days or more, Landlord may sell any or all of such
property at public or private sale, in such manner and at such times and places
as Landlord, in its sole discretion, may deem proper, without notice to or
demand upon Tenant for the payment of all or any

                   -22-

<PAGE>   23



part of such charges or the removal of any such property. Landlord shall apply
the proceeds of such sale first, to the cost and expense of such sale,
including, without limitation, attorneys' fees incurred in connection therewith;
second, to the payment of the cost of or charges for storing any such property;
third, to the payment of any other sums of money which may then or thereafter be
due to Landlord from Tenant under any of the terms hereof; and fourth, the
balance, if any, to Tenant.

     23.4  All  fixtures,  alterations,  additions,  improvements  and/or
appurtenances attached or built into the Premises prior to or during the Term
hereof, whether by Landlord at its expense or at the expense of Tenant or both,
shall be and remain part of the Premises and shall not be removed by Tenant at
the end of the Term hereof unless otherwise expressly provided for in this
Lease. Any items installed by Tenant without Landlord's consent, as permitted
under Section 9.1, shall be removed by Tenant at the end of the Term, if so
required by Landlord, unless Landlord has given a contrary indication in writing
to Tenant at the time of the installation of such items. Such fixtures,
equipment, alterations, additions, improvements and/or appurtenances shall
include, without limitation, floor coverings, drapes, paneling, molding, doors,
plumbing systems, electrical systems, lighting systems, silencing equipment,
communication systems, all fixtures and outlets for the systems mentioned above
and for all telephone, radio, telegraph and television purposes, and any special
flooring or ceiling installations.


Article 24. WAIVER OF DAMAGES FOR REENTRY

     Tenant hereby waives all claims for damages that may be caused by
Landlord's re-entering and taking possession of the Premises or removing and
storing the property of Tenant as herein provided, and Tenant shall indemnify
and hold harmless Landlord therefrom. No such re-entry shall be considered or
construed to be a forcible entry.


Article 25. HOLDING OVER

     25.1 If Tenant holds over after the term hereof, with or without the
express or implied consent of Landlord, such tenancy shall be from month to
month only, and not a renewal hereof or an extension for any further term, and
in such case base rent shall be payable at the rate of one hundred fifty percent
(150%) of the rent then payable pursuant to Article 3 hereof, and such month to
month tenancy shall be subject to every other term, covenant and agreement
contained herein. Nothing contained in this Article 25 shall be construed as a
consent by Landlord to any holding over by Tenant and Landlord expressly
reserves the right to require Tenant to surrender possession of the Premises to
Landlord as provided in Article 23 hereof upon the expiration of the term of
this Lease or other termination of this Lease.

                   -23-

<PAGE>   24



     25.2 Tenant acknowledges that Landlord will use reasonable efforts to
re-let the Premises on reasonable terms and conditions as soon as practicable
following the expiration or sooner termination of the term of this Lease. In
that context, Landlord may well enter into agreements with third parties
providing for the occupancy of the Premises, or a portion thereof, upon such
expiration or sooner termination or as soon thereafter as Landlord has estimated
that it will be able to refurbish the Premises, and that the failure by Tenant
to surrender possession of the Premises upon such expiration or sooner
termination may render Landlord unable to fulfill its obligations to such third
party. Accordingly, if Tenant fails to surrender possession of the Premises upon
such expiration or sooner termination, Tenant shall indemnify and hold Landlord
harmless from and against any and all costs, losses, claims or liabilities,
including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, arising under any claim made by
any such third party based, in whole or in part, on Landlord's failure to
deliver possession of the Premises, or any part thereof, to such third party.


Article 26. SUBORDINATION

     26.1 This Lease is and at all times shall be subject and subordinate to any
ground or underlying leases, mortgages, trust deeds or like encumbrances, which
may now or hereafter affect the real property of which the Premises are a part,
and to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions
of any such lease, mortgage, trust deed or like encumbrance. This clause shall
be self-operative and no further instrument of subordination shall be required
by any ground or underlying lessor or by any mortgagee or beneficiary, affecting
any lease or the real property of which the Premises are a part. In confirmation
of such subordination, Tenant shall execute promptly any certificate that
Landlord may request. The subordination of this Lease to any such lease,
mortgage, trust deed or like encumbrance shall, however, be subject to the
following:

       (i) In the event of the sale of the Premises upon foreclosure or upon
the exercise of a power of sale, or by transfer in lieu of foreclosure or such
exercise, Tenant will upon written request attorn to the purchaser and recognize
the purchaser, or transferee, as the Landlord under this Lease.

       (ii) Notwithstanding such subordination, Tenant's right to quiet
possession of the Premises and all other Tenant's rights under this Lease, shall
not be disturbed so long as Tenant shall pay the rent and observe and perform
all of the provisions of this Lease to be observed and performed by Tenant
unless this Lease is terminated pursuant to specific provisions relating thereto
contained herein.

     26.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Landlord agrees, at
the request of Tenant, to use its reasonable efforts to obtain from Security
Pacific National Bank a recognition and non-disturbance agreement in form and
substance

                   -24-

<PAGE>   25



reasonably satisfactory to Tenant, and Landlord shall cooperate with Tenant as
may be necessary to secure such agreement.


Article 27. ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES

     Tenant shall at any time and from time to time upon not less than twenty
(20) days' prior notice by Landlord, execute, acknowledge and deliver to
Landlord a statement in writing certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in
full force and effect (or if there have been modifications, that the same is in
full force and effect as modified and stating the modifications), stating the
dates to which the basic rent, additional rent and other charges have been paid
in advance, if any, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of Tenant,
Landlord is in default in the performance of any covenant, agreement or
condition contained in this Lease and, if so, specifying each such default of
which Tenant may have knowledge, and responding to such other questions or
statements of fact as Landlord or any ground or underlying lessor or any
mortgagee or beneficiary shall reasonably request. Tenant's failure to deliver
such statement within such time shall constitute an acknowledgment by Tenant
that this Lease is unmodified and in full force and effect except as may be
represented to the contrary by Landlord, no more than one monthly installment of
Base Rent has been paid in advance, Landlord is not in default in the
performance of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in this Lease and
the other matters set forth in such request, if any, are true and correct. Any
such statement delivered pursuant to this Article 27 may be relied upon by any
prospective purchaser of the fee of the Premises or any mortgagee or other like
encumbrancer thereof or any assignee of any such encumbrancer upon the Premises.
Landlord shall reimburse Tenant for Tenant's reasonable costs, including,
without limitation, its attorneys' fees, incurred in conjunction with the
processing and documentation of any estoppel certificate.


Article 28. RIGHT OF LANDLORD TO PERFORM

     If Tenant shall fail to pay any sum of money, other than rent, required to
be paid by it hereunder or shall fail to perform any other act on its part to be
performed hereunder, and such failure shall continue beyond any applicable grace
period set forth in Article 21 or 22 hereof, Landlord may, but shall not be
obligated so to do, and without waiving or releasing Tenant from any obligation
of Tenant, make any such payment or perform any such other act. Tenant shall,
promptly and upon demand therefor by Landlord, reimburse Landlord for all sums
so paid by Landlord and all necessary incidental costs, together with interest
thereon at the rate of twelve (12%) percent from the date of such payment by
Landlord, and Landlord shall have the same rights and remedies in the event of
the failure by Tenant to pay such amounts as Landlord would have in the event of
a default by Tenant in the payment of rent.

                   -25-

<PAGE>   26




Article 28A TENANT'S RIGHT TO PERFORM

     If Landlord shall at any time default in the performance of any obligation
of Landlord (a) under this Lease with respect to any matter under Article 1A
hereof, or (b) under the SPA, with respect to the Excluded Liabilities with
respect to the Environmental Liabilities and the VOC Remediation Program, as
they apply to the adjoining premises at 1525 Comstock Road, leased by Landlord
to Tenant under the Lease of even date herewith, then Tenant shall have the
right (after Landlord's failure to cure such default within 60 days after
written  notice from Tenant to Landlord)  to perform  such  obligation,
notwithstanding the fact that no specific provision for such substituted
performance by Tenant is made in this Lease with respect to such default
("Tenant's Self-Help Remedy"). Any sums paid by Tenant (together with interest
at the rate of twelve (12%) percent from the date of payment, and all necessary
incidental costs and expenses in connection with the performance of any such
obligation by Tenant, shall be payable to Tenant immediately on demand, and if
not so paid may be offset by Tenant from the next succeeding installment(s) of
Base Rent due under this Lease, until Tenant shall have recouped such amount in
full, with interest as provided herein; provided, that in no event shall Tenant
set off against the Base Rent hereunder an amount in excess of $2,000,000.00, in
the aggregate, during the Term of this Lease. Tenant may exercise the foregoing
rights without waiving any other of its rights or releasing Landlord from any of
its obligations under this Lease. In addition to the other remedies provided in
this Lease, Tenant shall to the full extent provided by law, be entitled to the
restraint by injunction of the violation or attempted or threatened violation of
any of the covenants, conditions or provisions of this Lease by Landlord, or to
a decree compelling specific performance by Landlord of any such covenants
conditions or provisions. Nothing herein shall be construed to permit Tenant to
obtain a recovery with respect to any matter as to which Tenant has previously
obtained a recovery by other means. The continuance of possession by Tenant
following any such default by Landlord shall not be deemed a waiver by Tenant of
any rights under this Lease; specifically, Tenant reserves the right to
terminate this Lease by notice to Landlord delivered at any time when Tenant is
exercising Tenant's Self-Help Remedy hereunder.


Article 29. NOTICES

     All notices and consents which Landlord or Tenant may be required, or may
desire, to serve or confer on the other must be in writing and may be served, as
an alternative to personal service, by mailing the same by either (a) registered
or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or (b) Federal
Express or similar overnight courier delivery service, addressed as follows:


                   -26-

<PAGE>   27



     If to Landlord:   Bourns, Inc.
                       1200 Columbia Avenue
                       Riverside, California 92507
                       Attn: Larry L. White,
                             Executive Vice President

     With a copy to:   Bourns, Inc.
                       1200 Columbia Avenue
                       Riverside, California 92507
                       Attn: William Becker, Esq.,
                             Chief Legal Counsel

     Submission of this Lease by either party shall not bind either party in any
manner and no lease or other obligation on the part of either party shall arise,
until this Lease is executed and delivered by both parties.

     IN WITNESS  WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Lease as of the
date first above written.

Landlord:                                  Tenant:

Bourns, Inc.                               Precision Monolithics, Inc.


By: Larry L. White                         By: Alan King
   ---------------------------                -----------------------------
   Title: Exec. Vice President                Title: President



By:                                        By:
   ---------------------------                -----------------------------
     Title                                      Title



Address:                                   Address:

- ------------------------------             --------------------------------


- ------------------------------             --------------------------------


- ------------------------------             --------------------------------



                                      -27-

<PAGE>   28



                                   SCHEDULE A

                             Description of Premises


     All that certain real property in the City of Santa Clara, County of Santa
Clara, State of California, described as follows:

     All of Parcel "A" as shown on that certain map entitled, "Parcel Map Lands
of Precision Monolithics," which map was filed for record in the office of the
recorder of the County of Santa Clara, State of California on June 10, 1975 in
Book 357 of Maps, Page 4.





                   -28-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.20
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>TERM LOAN AGREEMENT DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 12, 1991
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10-20
                                [CONFORMED COPY]



                   AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT


       AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of October 25, 1996
among ANALOG DEVICES, INC. (with its successors, the "Company") and the BANKS
listed on the signature pages hereof (with their successors, the "Banks").

                 W I T N E S S E T H:

       WHEREAS, the parties hereto and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
York, as Agent (with its successors in such capacity, the "Agent") have
heretofore entered into a Credit Agreement dated as of March 12, 1993 (as
amended by Amendment No. 1 thereto dated as of May 18, 1993, and Amendment
No. 2 thereto dated as of September 8, 1994, the "Agreement"); and

       WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend such Agreement as set forth
herein and to restate such Agreement in its entirety to read as set forth in the
Agreement with the amendments specified below;

       NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:

       SECTION 1. Definitions; References. Unless otherwise specifically
defined herein, each term used herein which is defined in the Agreement has the
meaning assigned to such term in the Agreement. Each reference to "hereof",
"hereunder", "herein" and "hereby" and each other similar reference and each
reference to "this Agreement" or to the Agreement and each other similar
reference contained in the Agreement or in any Exhibit thereto shall from and
after the date hereof refer to the Agreement as amended and restated hereby.

       SECTION 2. Amendment of Section 1.01. Section 1.01 of the Agreement is
amended:

       (a) by replacing the date "September 8, 1998" in the definition of
"Termination Date" with the date "October 25, 2000";

       (b) by deleting the definition of "Commitment Fee Rate"; and

       (c) by replacing the definition of "Facility Fee Rate" with the
following:


<PAGE>   2
                  "Facility Fee Rate" means (i) .085 of 1% per annum for any
         date on which Level I Status exists, (ii) .125 of 1% per annum for any
         date on which Level II Status exists, (iii) .1875 of 1% per annum for
         any date on which Level III Status exists, (iv) .25 of 1% per annum for
         any date on which Level IV Status exists and (v) .375 of 1% per annum
         for any date on which Level V Status exists.

         SECTION 3. Amendment of Section 2.07. Section 2.07 of the Agreement is
amended:

         (a) by replacing the definition of "CD Margin" in subsection (b) with
the following:

                  "CD Margin" means (i) .365 of 1% per annum for any date on
         which Level I Status exists, (ii) .425 of 1% per annum for any date on
         which Level II Status exists, (iii) .5375 of 1% per annum for any date
         on which Level III Status exists, (iv) .75 of 1% per annum for any date
         on which Level IV Status exists and (v) 1% per annum for any date on
         which Level V Status exists.

and (b) by replacing the definition of "Euro-Dollar Margin" in subsection (c)
with the following:

                  "Euro-Dollar Margin" means (i) .24 of 1% per annum for any
         date on which Level I Status exists, (ii) .30 of 1% per annum for any
         date on which Level II Status exists, (iii) .4125 of 1% per annum for
         any date on which Level III Status exists, (iv) .625 of 1% per annum
         for any date on which Level IV Status exists, and (v) .875 of 1% per
         annum for any date on which Level V Status exists.

         SECTION 4. Amendment of Section 2.08. Section 2.08 of the Agreement is
amended to read in its entirety as follows:

                  (a) Facility Fee. The Company shall pay to the Agent for the
         account of the Banks ratably a facility fee at the Facility Fee Rate.
         Such facility fee shall accrue (i) from and including the date hereof
         to but excluding the Termination Date, on the daily aggregate amount of
         the Commitments (whether used or unused) and (ii) from and including
         the Termination Date to but excluding the date the Loans shall be
         repaid in their entirety, on the daily aggregate outstanding principal
         amount of the Loans.

                   (b) Payments. Accrued fees under subsection (a) of this
         Section shall be payable quarterly on each March 15, June 15, September
         15 and 


                                       2
<PAGE>   3
         December 15, and upon the date of termination of the Commitments in
         their entirety (and, if later, the date the Loans shall be repaid in
         their entirety).

                  (c) Administrative and Auction Fees. The Company shall pay to
         the Agent for its own account administrative and auction fees in the
         amounts previously agreed between them.

         SECTION 5. Amendment of Section 5.10. Section 5.10 of the Agreement is
amended by replacing "$288,981,000" with "$600,000,000", "January 31, 1993" with
"November 3, 1996" and "January 30, 1993" with "November 2, 1996".

         SECTION 6. Amendment of Section 5.11. Section 5.11 of the Agreement is
amended by replacing "$29,734,000" with "$150,000,000", "January 30, 1993" with
"November 2, 1996" and "January 31, 1993" with "November 3, 1996".

         SECTION 7. Amendment of Section 5.13. Section 5.13 of the Agreement is
amended by deleting "and" at the end of clause (i) and replacing clause (j) with
the following clauses (j) and (k):

         (j) Liens securing Capital Leases entered into after August 3, 1996 in
an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed
$200,000,000; and

         (k) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses of this
Section securing indebtedness in an aggregate principal and mark to market value
(net of mark to market thresholds, if any) amount at any one time outstanding
not to exceed 20% of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.

         SECTION 8. Governing Law. This Amendment and Restatement shall be
governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.

         SECTION 9. Counterparts; Effectiveness. This Amendment and Restatement
may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original,
with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same
instrument. This Amendment and Restatement shall become effective as of the date
hereof when the Agent shall receive

         (a) duly executed counterparts hereof signed by the Company and the
Banks (or, in the case of any party as to which an executed counterpart shall
not have been received, the Agent shall receive telex, telecopy or other written
confirmation from such party of execution of a counterpart hereof by such
party);


                                       3
<PAGE>   4
         (b) an opinion of William A. Wise, Jr., Assistant General Counsel of
the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto and covering such
additional matters relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the
Required Banks may reasonably request;

         (c) an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, special counsel for the Agent,
substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto and covering such additional
matters relating to the transactions contemplated hereby as the Required Banks
may reasonably request; and

         (d) all documents it may reasonably request relating to the existence
of the Company, the corporate authority for and the validity of this Amendment
and Restatement, the Agreement as amended and restated hereby and the Notes, and
any other matters relevant hereto, all in form and substance satisfactory to the
Agent;

provided that this Amendment and Restatement shall not become effective or be
binding on any party hereto unless all of the foregoing conditions are satisfied
not later than October 31, 1996.


                                       4
<PAGE>   5
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amended and
Restated Credit Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized
officers as of the day and year first above written.

                                            ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


                                            By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                               -------------------------------- 
                                                  Name: William A. Martin
                                                  Title: Treasurer


                                            MORGAN GUARANTY TRUST
                                                  COMPANY OF NEW YORK


                                            By: /s/ Robert L. Barrett
                                               -------------------------------- 
                                                  Name: Robert L. Barrett
                                                  Title: Vice President


                                            BANK OF AMERICA NATIONAL TRUST
                                                  AND SAVINGS ASSOCIATION


                                            By: /s/ Jamie Dillon
                                               -------------------------------- 
                                                  Name: Jamie Dillon
                                                  Title: Vice President


                                            THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK
                                                  OF BOSTON


                                            By: /s/ Daniel G. Head, Jr.
                                               -------------------------------- 
                                                  Name: Daniel G. Head, Jr.
                                                  Title: Vice President


                                       5
<PAGE>   6
                                                                       EXHIBIT A


                                   OPINION OF
                             COUNSEL FOR THE COMPANY



                                                      October 25, 1996


To the Banks and the Agent
  Referred to Below
c/o Morgan Guaranty Trust Company
  of New York, as Agent
60 Wall Street
New York, New York  10260

Dear Sirs:

         This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 9(b) of the
Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of October 25, 1996 among Analog
Devices, Inc. (the "Company"), the banks listed on the signature pages thereof
(the "Banks") and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Agent (the
Credit Agreement as so amended and restated, the "Credit Agreement). Terms
defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined.

         I have acted as counsel for the Company in connection with the Credit
Agreement. In rendering this opinion, I have examined and am familiar with the
Credit Agreement, the Notes, the Articles of Organization and by-laws of the
Company (each as amended to date), all material records of meetings of directors
of the Company, certificates of public officials, and such other documents and
matters of law as I have determined necessary as a basis for the opinion
hereinafter expressed.

         In my examination of the foregoing documents, I have assumed the
genuineness of all signatures and the authenticity of all documents submitted to
me as originals, the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted
to me as certified or photostatic copies, and the authenticity of the originals
of such latter documents. Insofar as this opinion relates to factual matters,
information with respect to which is not in my possession, I have relied
exclusively upon 


<PAGE>   7
representations made by the Company in the Credit Agreement, and nothing has
come to my attention leading me to question the accuracy of such information.

         My opinion set forth below with respect to the Credit Agreement and the
Notes is limited to such documents and agreements themselves and does not extend
to any other documents, agreements, or instruments listed or described therein.

         For the purposes of this opinion, I have assumed that the Credit
Agreement is valid, binding and enforceable obligation of each Bank and the
Agent and that the facts and law governing the future performance by the Company
of its obligations under the Credit Agreement will be identical to the facts and
law governing such performance as of the date of this opinion.

         For the purposes of my opinion expressed in paragraph 1 below relating
to due incorporation, legal existence and good standing of the Company, I have
relied exclusively upon a certificate of the Office of the Secretary of State of
Massachusetts dated October __, 1996. For the purposes of my opinion expressed
in paragraph 5 below related to legal existence and good standing of the
Company's corporate Subsidiaries, I have not obtained from any governmental
authorities nor reviewed any certificates, laws or regulations applicable to
them or the conduct of their business whether in their respective jurisdictions
of incorporation or elsewhere.

         I am a member of the Bar of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts only, and
have not made an independent review of the laws of any state or jurisdiction
other than the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the Federal law of the United
States of America. Accordingly, I express no opinion herein as to the laws of
any state or other jurisdiction other than the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and
the Federal law of the United States of America. To the extent that the Credit
Agreement and Notes recite they are governed by the laws of the State of New
York, I have assumed, with your permission, that the laws of the State of New
York, to the extent relevant or applicable to the transactions contemplated by
such documents, are identical to those of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

         Any reference to "my knowledge" or "knowledge" or any variation thereof
shall mean my conscious awareness of the existence or absence of any facts that
would contradict my opinions set forth below. I have not undertaken any
independent investigation to determine the existence or absence of such facts.
Without limiting the foregoing with respect to my opinions in paragraphs 2 and 4
below, I have not conducted a search of the dockets of any court or
administrative or other regulatory agency.

         The opinion hereinafter expressed in paragraph 3 is qualified to the
extent that the validity or enforceability of any of the agreements, documents,
or 


                                       2
<PAGE>   8
obligations referred to herein may be subject to or affected by (i) applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, usury or other laws relating
to or affecting the rights of creditors generally, or (ii) duties and standards
imposed on creditors from time to time, including, without limitation, good
faith, reasonableness and fair dealing under the Uniform Commercial Code as
enacted in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts or any other applicable law. I
express no opinion as to the availability of any equitable remedy upon breach of
any of the agreements, documents or obligations referred to herein.

         I express no opinion as to the enforceability of the Agent's or any
Bank's rights under the Credit Agreement other than with respect to the Company.

         Based upon and subject to the foregoing, I am of the opinion that:

         1. The Company is a corporation duly incorporated, legally existing and
in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and has all
corporate powers, material governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and
approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted.

         2. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Credit
Agreement and the Notes are within the Company's corporate powers, have been
duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, require no action by or in
respect of, or filing with, any governmental body, agency or official and do not
contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or
regulation or of the Articles of Organization or by-laws of the Company or of
any agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other instrument binding
upon the Company or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any
asset of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.

         3. The Credit Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of
the Company and its Notes constitute valid and binding obligations of the
Company.

         4. To my knowledge, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending
against, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official, in
which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which could
materially adversely affect the business, consolidated financial position or
consolidated results of operations of the Company and its Consolidated
Subsidiaries, considered as a whole, or which in any manner draws into question
the validity of the Credit Agreement or the Notes.


                                       3
<PAGE>   9
         5. To my knowledge, each of the Company's corporate Subsidiaries is a
corporation legally existing and in good standing under the laws of its
jurisdiction of incorporation and has all corporate powers and all material
governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry
on its business as now conducted.

Very truly yours,

ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

William A. Wise, Jr.
Corporate Counsel


                                        4
<PAGE>   10
                                                                       EXHIBIT B




                                                    October 25, 1996


To the Banks and the Agent
  Referred to Below
c/o Morgan Guaranty Trust Company
  of New York, as Agent
60 Wall Street
New York, New York  10260

Dear Sirs:

         We have participated in the preparation of the Amended and Restated
Credit Agreement dated as of October 25, 1996 among Analog Devices, Inc., a
Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), the banks listed on the signature
pages thereof (the "Banks") and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
Agent (the "Agent") (the Credit Agreement as so amended and restated, the
"Credit Agreement"). We have acted as special counsel for the Agent for the
purpose of rendering this opinion pursuant to Section 9(c) of the Amendment and
Restatement. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein
defined.

         We have examined originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified
to our satisfaction, of such documents, corporate records, certificates of
public officials and other instruments and have conducted such other
investigations of fact and law as we have deemed necessary or advisable for
purposes of this opinion.

         Upon the basis of the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Credit
Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company and its Notes
constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.

         We are members of the Bar of the State of New York and the foregoing
opinion is limited to the laws of the State of New York and the federal laws of
the United States of America. In giving the foregoing opinion, (i) we express no
opinion as to the effect (if any) of any law of any jurisdiction (except the
State of New York) in which any Bank is located which limits the rate of
interest that such Bank may charge or collect and (ii) we have relied, without
independent 


<PAGE>   11
investigation, as to all matters governed by the law of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, upon the opinion of William A. Wise, Jr., Esq., copies of which
have been delivered to you.

         This opinion is rendered solely to you in connection with the above
matter. This opinion may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose or
relied upon by or furnished to any other person without our prior written
consent.

                                                     Very truly yours,



                                       2
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.25
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>CONSULTING AGREEMENT WITH JOHN L. DOYLE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10-25
                                                                  -------------



                    DESCRIPTION OF CONSULTING AGREEMENT WITH
                                 JOHN L. DOYLE



     Mr. Doyle provides certain consulting services for the Registrant. He is
paid for such services, a fee of $3,250 per day plus expenses.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.29
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT FOR 610 WEDDELL DRIVE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.29

                                     LEASE


                               FERRARI BROTHERS,
                        a California general partnership


                                    Landlord



                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.,
                          a Massachusetts corporation


                                     Tenant




                             DATED: June  16 , 1995
                                         ----


                              ADDRESS OF PREMISES:

                               610 Weddell Drive
                          Sunnyvale, California  94086
                              Fabrication Facility

<PAGE>   2


                                 LEASE SUMMARY


Parties:

      Landlord:     Ferrari Brothers, a California general partnership

      Tenant:       Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation

Premises:           Approximately 27,379 square feet of space as shown
                    in EXHIBIT A.

Building:           610 Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale, California

Scheduled Commencement
Date:               June  16 , 1995

Expiration Date:    March 31, 2000

Base Rent:          Thirty Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000) per month

Security Deposit:   A certificate of deposit as described in Paragraph 4

Tenant's Share of Building:   43.4%

Option(s) to Extend:          Three (3) five-year options

<PAGE>   3

<TABLE>
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
<CAPTION>

                                                                         PAGE
                                                                         ----
<S>  <C>  <C>                                                            <C>
1.   Premises. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
     --------
2.   Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
     ----
3.   Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
     ----
     3.1  Initial Base Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
          ----------------- 
     3.2  Rental Adjustment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2
          -----------------
     3.3  Manner of Payment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
          -----------------
     3.4  Late Payment Charge. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
          -------------------

4.   Security Deposit. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3
     ----------------

5.   Taxes.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
     -----
     5.1  Tenant's Personal Property.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
          --------------------------
     5.2  Real Property Taxes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .4
          -------------------

6.   Use.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
     ---
     6.1  Permitted Uses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
          --------------
     6.2  Compliance with Law. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .6
          -------------------

7.   Hazardous Materials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
     -------------------

8.   Restrictions on Use.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     -------------------

9.   Operating Expenses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     ------------------

     9.1  Operating Expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
          ------------------
     9.2  Monthly Payments.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
          ----------------

10.  Maintenance and Repairs.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     -----------------------
     10.1 Tenant's Obligations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
          --------------------
     10.2 Landlord's Obligations.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
          ----------------------
     10.3 Landlord to Maintain and Control Outside Areas . . . . . . . . 14
          ----------------------------------------------
     10.4 HVAC Replacement and Parking Lot Resurfacing . . . . . . . . . 14
          --------------------------------------------

11.  Alterations.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
     -----------

</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>   4
<TABLE>
<S>  <C>   <C>                                                            <C>
     11.1  Landlord's Consent Required. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
           ---------------------------
     11.2  Plans and Permits. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
           -----------------
     11.3  Construction Work Done by Tenant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
           --------------------------------
     11.4  Roof Repairs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
           ------------
     11.5  Title to Alterations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
           --------------------
     11.6  Mechanics' Liens . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
           ----------------

12.  Utilities. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
     ---------

13.  Indemnity. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
     ---------

     13.1  Indemnity by Tenant. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
           -------------------
     13.2  Indemnity by Landlord. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
           ---------------------

14.  Insurance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
     ---------

     14.1  Tenant's Liability Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
           ----------------------------
     14.2  Landlord's Property Insurance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
           -----------------------------
     14.3  Tenant's Property Insurance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
           ---------------------------
     14.4  Payment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
           -------
     14.5  Insurance Policies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
           ------------------
     14.6  Waiver of Subrogation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
           ---------------------
     14.7  No Limitation of Liability.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
           --------------------------

15.  Damage or Destruction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
     ---------------------
     15.1  Partial Damage - Insured . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
           ------------------------
     15.2  Partial Damage - Uninsured . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
           --------------------------
     15.3  Total Destruction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
           -----------------
     15.4  Damage Near End of Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
           -----------------------
     15.5  Abatement of Rent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
           -----------------
     15.6  Waiver . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           ------
     15.7  Tenant's Property. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           -----------------
     15.8  Notice of Damage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           ----------------
     15.9  Replacement Cost . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           ----------------
     15.10 Disbursement Account.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
           --------------------

16.  Condemnation.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
     ------------
     16.1  Partial Taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
           --------------
     16.2  Total Taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
           ------------
     16.3  Distribution of Award. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
           ---------------------
     16.4  Sale Under Threat of Condemnation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
           ---------------------------------
     16.5  Temporary Taking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
           ----------------
</TABLE>
                                       ii
<PAGE>   5
<TABLE>
  <S>  <C>  <C>                                                             <C>
  17.  Assignment and Subletting.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
       -------------------------
       17.1 Prohibition of Assignment and Subletting . . . . . . . . . . .  27
            ----------------------------------------
       17.2 Documentation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
            -------------
       17.3 Terms and Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
            --------------------

  18.  Events of Default and Remedies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
       ------------------------------
       18.1 Events of Default. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
            -----------------
       18.2 Remedies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  30
            --------

  19.  Advertisements and Signs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
       ------------------------

  20.  Entry by Landlord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
       -----------------

  21.  Subordination and Attornment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
       ----------------------------

  22.  Estoppel Certificates and Financial Statements. . . . . . . . . . .  33
       ----------------------------------------------

  23.  Notices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       -------

  24.  Waiver. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       ------

  25.  Attorney's Fees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       ---------------

  26.  Surrender . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
       ---------

  27.  Holding Over. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
       ------------

  28.  Transfer of Premises by Landlord. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
       --------------------------------

  29.  Option(s) to Extend Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
       ------------------------
       29.1 Exercise of Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
            ------------------
       29.2 Rent During Extended Term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
            -------------------------
       29.3 Rental Adjustments During Extended Term. . . . . . . . . . . .  37
            ---------------------------------------

  30.  Parking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
       -------

  31.  Reasonable Consent. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
       ------------------

  32.  Cure Period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
       -----------
</TABLE>
                                      iii
<PAGE>   6
<TABLE>
  <S>  <C>   <C>                                                             <C>
       32.1  Cure by Landlord . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
             ----------------
       32.2  Cure by Tenant.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  38
             --------------

  33.  Mortgagee Protection.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
       --------------------

  34.  General Provisions.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
       ------------------
       34.1  Entire Agreement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             ---------------- 
       34.2  Time . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             ----
       34.3  Captions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             --------
       34.4  California Law . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             --------------
       34.5  Partial Invalidity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
             ------------------
       34.6  No Warranties. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             -------------
       34.7  Successors and Assigns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             ----------------------
       34.8  Rules and Regulations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             ---------------------
       34.9  Authority. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             ---------
       34.10 Memorandum of Lease. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             -------------------
       34.11 Reasonable Expenditures .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  40
             -----------------------
       34.12 Amendments to Accommodate Lenders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             ---------------------------------
       34.13 Merger.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             ------
       34.14 Force Majeure. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             -------------
       34.15 Exhibits.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  41
             --------

  EXHIBITS

       Exhibit "A" -- Premises
       Exhibit "B" -- Property Description
       Exhibit "C" -- Plans and Specifications for Tenant Improvements
       Exhibit "D" -- Plans and Specifications for Additional Improvements
       Exhibit "E" -- Nondisturbance Agreement
       Exhibit "F" -- Memorandum of Lease

</TABLE>


                                       iv
<PAGE>   7
                                     LEASE

       This Lease is made and entered into as of June 1, 1995, by and between
  Ferrari Brothers, a California general partnership ("Landlord"), whose
  address is 1265 Montecito Avenue, Suite 200, Mountain View, California 94043,
  and Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation ("Tenant"), whose
  address is 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062-9106, Attn: Mr.
  William Wise.


       Landlord and Tenant agree to the terms, covenants and conditions of
  this Lease, as follows:

       1.   PREMISES.  Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby
  leases from Landlord for the term, at the rental, and upon all of the other
  terms, covenants and conditions set forth herein, those certain premises (the
  "Premises") as shown on EXHIBIT "A" attached hereto consisting of
  approximately 27,379 square feet of space within that certain building (the
  "Building") situated in the City of Sunnyvale, County of Santa Clara, State
  of California, commonly known as 610 Weddell Drive and more particularly
  described in EXHIBIT "B" attached hereto.  Tenant is entering into this Lease
  in conjunction with its acquisition of certain fabrication facility assets
  situated on the Premises from Performance Semiconductor Corporation ("PSC"),
  the prior tenant of the Premises.

  Tenant shall also have the exclusive right to use the loading docks (if any)
  contiguous to the Premises and located within the Outside Areas, and the
  nonexclusive right to use all other portions of the Outside Areas in common
  with other tenants from time to time occupying space within the Building
  together with their respective agents, contractors, and other invitees.
  Landlord reserves the right to grant such easements burdening the Outside
  Areas as Landlord in its reasonable discretion deems appropriate provided the
  same do not unreasonably interfere with Tenant's ability to use the Outside
  Areas.  Tenant at it sole expense shall maintain the water monitoring wells
  located within the Outside Areas as shown on EXHIBIT "B."

       The parcel of land on which the Building is situated, together with the
  Building and all other improvements now or hereafter located thereon, is
  hereafter called the "Project."

       The portion of the parcel of land described above not covered by the
  Building is hereafter called the "Outside Areas."

                                       1
<PAGE>   8

       "Tenant's Share" as used in this Lease means that percentage of the
  total number of square feet of leasable space in the Building which is
  contained in the Premises, which the parties agree is Forty-Three and Four
  Tenths percent (43.4%).

       2.   TERM.  The term of this Lease shall commence on June 16, 1995 (the
  "Commencement Date"), and end on March 31, 2000 (the "Expiration Date"),
  unless sooner terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof.

       3.   Rent.
            ----
            3.1  INITIAL BASE RENT. Commencing on the Commencement Date, Tenant
  shall pay to Landlord for each calendar month of the term of this Lease,
  monthly base rent (hereafter called "Base Rent"), in the amount of Thirty
  Five Thousand Dollars ($35,000).  Base Rent shall be subject to adjustment
  from time to time as set forth in Paragraph 3.2.

            3.2  RENTAL ADJUSTMENT.  The monthly Base Rent payable hereunder
  shall be adjusted as of April 1, 1996 and as of April 1 of each successive
  year (each such date herein called a "Rental Adjustment Date") during the
  term of this Lease to reflect any changes in the cost of living.  The
  adjustment or adjustments, if any, shall be calculated upon the basis of the
  United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics CONSUMER PRICE
  INDEX FOR ALL URBAN CONSUMERS, FOR SAN FRANCISCO-OAKLAND-SAN JOSE
  (1982-84=100), hereafter referred to as the "Index".  The Index for said
  subgroup most recently published as of April 1, 1995 shall be considered the
  "base".  On the first Rental Adjustment Date, the monthly Base Rent shall be
  adjusted by the percentage increase, if any, in the Index as of the Rental
  Adjustment Date, over the base.  On each subsequent Rental Adjustment Date,
  the monthly Base Rent (as previously adjusted) shall be further adjusted by
  the percentage increase, if any, in the Index as of the Rental Adjustment
  Date over the Index as of the preceding Rental Adjustment Date.  When the
  Base Rent is determined upon the Rental Adjustment Date, Landlord shall give
  Tenant written notice to that effect indicating how the new Base Rent figure
  was computed in accordance with this paragraph.  If the Index does not exist
  on any Rental Adjustment Date in the same format as referred to in this
  paragraph, Landlord shall substitute in lieu thereof an index reasonably
  comparable to the Index referred to above which is then published by the
  Bureau of Labor Statistics, or by a successor or similar governmental agency,
  or, if no governmental agency then publishes an index, Landlord shall
  substitute therefor any commonly accepted index designed to reflect changes
  in the cost of living which is published by a reputable private organization.


                                       2
<PAGE>   9

            3.3  MANNER OF PAYMENT.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord the rent
  calculated as set forth above without deduction, offset, or abatement (except
  as expressly otherwise provided in Paragraphs 15.5, 16.1, and 16.5 below),
  and without prior notice or demand, in advance on the first day of each
  calendar month of the term of this Lease.  Rent shall be payable in lawful
  money of the United States to Landlord at 1265 Montecito Avenue, Suite 200,
  Mountain View, California 94043 or at such other place as Landlord may from
  time to time designate in writing.  Tenant's obligation to pay rent for any
  partial month shall be prorated on the basis of a thirty (30) day month.

            3.4  LATE PAYMENT CHARGE.  If any installment of rent or any other
  sum due from Tenant is not received by Landlord within ten (10) days after
  the due date, Tenant shall pay to Landlord an additional sum of Seven Hundred
  Dollars ($700.00).  Such sum shall represent liquidated damages for, and a
  reasonable estimate of, Landlord's administrative costs of collection, the
  exact amount of which would be extremely difficult or impractical to fix.
  Landlord's acceptance of such late charge shall not excuse any default by
  Tenant hereunder, and shall not preclude Landlord from pursuing any other
  rights and remedies it may have relating to such default.

       4.   SECURITY DEPOSIT.  Prior to the Commencement Date, Tenant shall
  establish a Certificate of Deposit in the name of Analog Devices, Inc.  in
  favor of Ferrari Brothers, a California general partnership, in the sum of
  Nineteen Thousand Three Hundred Sixty Two Dollars and Twenty Two Cents
  ($19,362.22).  It is specifically agreed that Landlord shall have access to
  the funds represented by the Certificate of Deposit only for the purposes and
  under the conditions set forth herein.  The Certificate of Deposit shall be
  renewable on an annual basis and shall be renewed by Tenant at least thirty
  (30) days prior to the scheduled maturity thereof each year.  The Certificate
  of Deposit, as the same may be renewed from time-to-time, shall remain in
  effect at least until the sooner of the expiration of this Lease or thirty
  (30) days after the sooner termination thereof, and in all events at least
  until ten (10) days after Tenant has vacated the Premises.  If Tenant fails
  to pay rent or any other sum due hereunder, or otherwise defaults with
  respect to any provision of this Lease, Landlord may draw sums from the
  Certificate of Deposit for the payment of any rent or other sum in default,
  or to compensate Landlord for the payment of any other sum, including
  attorneys' fees, which Landlord spends by reason of Tenant's default.
  Landlord may draw upon the Certificate of Deposit without prejudice to any
  other remedy Landlord may have by reason of Tenant's default or breach.  If
  Landlord so draws all or a portion of the Certificate of Deposit, Tenant
  shall, within twenty (20) days after demand in writing therefor, restore the
  amount of the Certificate of Deposit to the original amount thereof.

                                       3
<PAGE>   10

       5.   Taxes.
            -----
            5.1  TENANT'S PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Tenant shall pay directly to the
  charging authority prior to delinquency all taxes assessed against and levied
  upon Tenant's leasehold improvements, trade fixtures, furnishings, equipment
  and all other personal property and merchandise of Tenant situated in or
  about the Premises.

            5.2  REAL PROPERTY TAXES.  Tenant's Share of all Real Property
  Taxes (as hereafter defined) levied with respect to the Project shall be
  deemed Operating Expenses as described in Paragraph 9 below.

                 The term "Real Property Taxes" as used herein shall mean (i)
  all taxes, assessments, levies, and other charges of any kind or nature
  whatsoever, general and special (including all installments of principal and
  interest required to pay for any general or special assessments for public
  improvements, services, or benefits and any increases resulting from
  reassessments caused by any change in ownership, new construction, or change
  in valuation), now or hereafter imposed by any governmental or
  quasi-governmental authority or special district having the direct or
  indirect power to tax or levy assessments, which are levied or assessed
  against or with respect to (a) the value, occupancy or use of the Project (as
  now constructed or as may at any time hereinafter be constructed, altered, or
  otherwise changed), (b) the fixtures, equipment, and other real or personal
  property of Landlord that are an integral part of the Project, (c) the gross
  receipts, income, and rentals from the Project, or (d) the use of the Outside
  Areas, public utilities, or energy within the Project; (ii) all charges,
  levies or fees imposed by reason of environmental regulation or other
  governmental control of the Project; (iii) all new exercise, transaction,
  sales, privilege or other taxes now or hereafter imposed upon Landlord as a
  result of this Lease; and (iv) all reasonable costs and fees (including
  attorneys' fees) incurred by Landlord in contesting any Real Property Taxes
  pertaining to the Project and in negotiating with public authorities as to
  any Real Property Taxes pertaining to the Project.  If at any time during the
  lease term the taxation or assessment of the Project prevailing as of the
  Commencement Date shall be altered so that in lieu of or in addition to any
  Real Property Taxes described above there shall be levied, assessed or
  imposed (whether by reason of a change in the method of taxation or
  assessment, creation of a new tax or charge, or any other cause) an
  alternate, substitute, or additional tax or charge (i) on the value, use or
  occupancy of the Project, (ii) on or measured by the gross receipts, income,
  or rentals from the Project, or on Landlord's business of leasing the
  Project, or (iii) computed in any manner with respect to the operation of the
  Project, then any such tax or charge, however designated, shall be included
  within the meaning of the term "Real Property Taxes" for purposes of the
  Lease.  If any Real Property Tax

                                       4
<PAGE>   11
  is based upon property or rents unrelated to the Project, then only that part
  of such Real Property Tax that is fairly allocable to the Project shall be
  included within the meaning of the term "Real Property Taxes."
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Real Property Taxes" shall not
  include estate, inheritance, transfer, gift or franchise taxes of Landlord or
  the federal or state net income tax imposed on Landlord's income from all
  sources.

                 Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall have no obligation
  to pay any increase in Real Property Taxes due to a reassessment of the value
  of the Premises under Article XIIIA of the California Constitution to the
  extent such reassessment results from new construction on land adjacent to
  the Premises owned by Landlord and included within the tax parcel of which
  the Premises are a part.  Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
  relieve Tenant of the obligation of paying its share of increases in taxes
  under said Article XIIIA or any other provision of law in accordance with the
  provisions of this Lease, except as specifically set forth above in this
  paragraph.

                 Real Property Taxes shall be prorated on the basis of a
  365-day year to account for any fractional portion of a fiscal tax year
  included in the Lease term at the commencement or expiration of the term.

                 If any general or special assessment is levied and assessed
  against the Premises, Landlord may elect either to pay the assessment in full
  or to allow the assessment to go to bond.  If Landlord pays the assessment in
  full, Operating Expenses shall include a sum equal to that which would have
  been payable (as both principal and interest) had Landlord allowed the
  assessment to go to bond.

                 Tenant shall have the right, upon written request to Landlord,
  to inspect each and every original tax bill relating to taxes assessed during
  the Lease term against the Premises or the tax parcel of which the Premises
  are a part.  Landlord shall make such original tax bill available for
  Tenant's inspection at Landlord's headquarters or at such other reasonable
  place as Landlord may determine, during reasonable business hours.

                 Tenant at its cost shall have the right, at any time, to
  contest any Real Property Taxes that are to be paid by Tenant, provided that
  Tenant shall first pay any Real Property Taxes it desires to contest.
  Landlord shall not be required to join in any contest brought by Tenant
  unless the provisions of any law require that the contest be brought by or in
  the name of Landlord or any owner of the Premises.  In that case Landlord
  shall join in the contest or permit it to be brought in Landlord's

                                       5
<PAGE>   12
  name as long as Landlord is not required to bear any cost.  Tenant, on final
  determination of the contest, shall immediately pay or discharge any decision
  or judgement rendered, together with all costs, charges, interest, and
  penalties incidental to the decision or judgement.

                 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Tenant shall only be
  required to pay charges by the Environmental Protection Agency or other
  governmental agencies relating to cleaning up contamination on, under, or
  about the Premises to the extent such contamination results from Tenant's use
  of the Premises or is caused by Tenant to exist in, on, or about the
  Premises, and such expense shall be limited to costs incurred to perform such
  investigations and clean-up as may be required by law.  It is expressly
  understood that, except as otherwise provided in Paragraph 7 below, Tenant
  shall have no liability in connection with any contamination of the Premises
  occurring before Tenant's entry into the Premises, or occurring after
  expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term and Tenant's vacating of
  the Premises, except to the extent Tenant causes such contamination.

       6.   Use.
            ---
            6.1  PERMITTED USES.  The Premises shall be used and occupied only
  for the following purposes: office, research, development, manufacturing and
  sale of electronic components, and for no other use or purpose without first
  obtaining Landlord's written consent which shall not be unreasonably
  withheld.

            6.2  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.  Tenant shall at its sole expense at all
  times during the Lease term comply with all laws, statutes, ordinances,
  regulations, codes or other rules and regulations of lawful governmental
  authority (collectively "Regulations") relating to the Premises.
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Lease, Landlord shall
  perform and pay for all modifications to the structure of the Building (i.e.,
  the exterior walls, roof structure and building foundation), required in
  order to comply with any such Regulations, unless the need for compliance is
  (a) caused by Tenant's particular use of the Premises (rather than merely
  being a requirement for all buildings within the jurisdiction of such
  governmental authority), or (b) caused by any new construction performed by
  or on behalf of Tenant in, on or about the Premises (except to the extent
  that during the process of such new construction violations of codes in
  effect at the time Landlord constructed the Building are found, in which case
  Landlord shall be solely liable for the cost of curing such violations).
  Tenant shall perform and pay for any and all improvements or other
  modifications required to be made with respect to any improvements made to
  the Premises by Tenant, and all other portions of the Premises except as
  provided in the

                                       7

<PAGE>   13
  second sentence of this paragraph.  Without limiting the generality of the
  foregoing, Tenant specifically shall perform and pay at its sole cost for any
  and all work required to bring the Premises into compliance with the
  Americans with Disabilities Act and the Toxic Gas Ordinance.

       7.   Hazardous Materials.
            -------------------
            As used herein, "Hazardous Materials" means any hazardous, toxic,
  environmentally damaging or radioactive materials, substances or wastes,
  including, but not limited to, those materials, substances or wastes: (1)
  defined or listed as hazardous or extremely hazardous materials or wastes
  pursuant to Title 22, Division 4, Chapter 30, of the California Code of
  Regulations, as may be amended; (2) defined or listed as hazardous substances
  pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and
  Liability Act, 42 U.S.C. _ 9601, et seq., as may be amended; (3) defined or
  listed as hazardous or acutely hazardous wastes pursuant to the Resource
  Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. _ 6901, et seq., as may be amended;
  and/or (4) which consist in whole or part of petroleum, petroleum fractions,
  petroleum products or petroleum distillates.

            Tenant shall not cause or permit to be discharged from or about the
  Premises, the Building, or the Project any Hazardous Materials.  Without
  limiting the foregoing, Tenant shall not cause or permit to be discharged any
  Hazardous Materials into the groundwater or soils underlying or adjacent to
  the Premises, Building or Project.  Prior to its occupancy of the Premises
  Tenant shall provide Landlord with a copy of the following items relating to
  Tenant's bringing, using, or storing any Hazardous Materials on the Premises:
  (i) a copy of Tenant's Material Safety Data Sheet in the same form submitted
  to OSHA, (ii) a written detailed description of where on the Premises Tenant
  intends to store Hazardous Materials and the manner (volume and type of
  containers for each Hazardous Material, and method of securing the same
  against movement) in which such Hazardous Materials will be stored, and (iii)
  a general description of the processes for which the Hazardous Materials will
  be used.  Tenant shall deliver to Landlord in writing a detailed description
  of any updates to or other modifications of the foregoing as and when they
  occur.

            Tenant, at its sole expense shall comply with all applicable
  governmental rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, statutes, directives and
  other requirements (collectively, "Laws") respecting Hazardous Materials in
  connection with Tenant's activities and the activities of its agents,
  employees, contractors and invitees on or about the Premises, the Building or
  the Project.  Tenant, at its sole cost, shall perform all investigations,
  clean-up and other response actions which may be required by any

                                       7

<PAGE>   14
  governmental authority in, on, or about the Project, to the extent the same
  relate to Hazardous Materials the existence of which in, on or about the
  Project was caused by Tenant or its agents, contractors, employees, or
  invitees.  For purposes of this Paragraph 7 and all other provisions of this
  Lease, any Hazardous Materials existing in, on or about the Project which are
  of the same type, or which are derivative combinations or products thereof,
  of any Hazardous Materials or other chemicals or substances which have at any
  time been used, stored, generated, or released in, at, about or from the
  Premises shall be deemed to have been released and caused to exist in, on or
  about the Project by Tenant unless Tenant demonstrates by a preponderance of
  the evidence that the existence of such Hazardous Materials was not caused by
  Tenant.  For purposes of this Paragraph 7, Hazardous Materials located in, on
  or about the Premises, Building, or Project shall include without limitation
  Hazardous Materials situated in the groundwater or soil.

            Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless Landlord
  from and against all costs (including, but not limited to, environmental
  response costs and Landlord's attorneys' and experts' fees and costs),
  expenses, claims, judgments, losses, demands, liabilities, causes of action,
  governmental directives, proceedings or hearings, relating to the use,
  handling, generation, storage, transportation, release or disposal of
  Hazardous Materials by Tenant, or its employees, agents, invitees or
  contractors on, in, beneath, about or from, the Premises, the Building or the
  Project, and/or relating to the breach of any of Tenant's obligations under
  this Paragraph 7.  Tenant's obligation to defend shall mean with legal
  counsel approved by Landlord, which approval shall not unreasonably be
  withheld or delayed.  Without limitation of the foregoing, in the event
  Tenant, its employees, agents, invitees or contractors, causes or has caused
  the presence of Hazardous Materials in, on, or about the Premises, or in the
  groundwater or land underlying the Premises or the Building, or, in, on, or
  about any groundwater or land adjacent to, on, in the vicinity of the
  Premises, Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend, and hold harmless Landlord
  from and against the cost of environmental consultants, attorneys, and other
  consultants as Landlord determines are appropriate to assist Landlord in (1)
  investigating the source, extent, and composition of such Hazardous
  Materials, (2) cleaning up or otherwise remediating the same, (3) dealing
  with any potential or actual liability of Landlord and/or Tenant respecting
  such Hazardous Materials, and (4) otherwise dealing with such Hazardous
  Materials.  Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for (i) losses in or reductions
  to rental income resulting from Tenant's use, handling, generation, storage,
  transportation, release or disposal of Hazardous Materials; (ii) all costs of
  clean-up or other alterations to the Premises, the Building or the Project
  necessitated by Tenant's use, handling, generation, storage, transportation,
  release or disposal of Hazardous Materials; and (iii) any diminution in the
  fair market value of the Project caused by

                                       8

<PAGE>   15
  Tenant's use, handling, generation, storage, transportation, release or
  disposal of Hazardous Materials.

            Tenant shall notify Landlord in writing, immediately upon becoming
  aware of:  (1) any environmental investigation, clean-up or other
  environmental response action requested, demanded, instituted or to be
  instituted by any person, including but not limited to a governmental entity,
  relating to any release or migration of Hazardous Materials on, in, beneath,
  to or adjacent to the Premises, the Building or the Project; (2) any
  environmental investigation, cleanup or other environmental response action
  requested, demanded, instituted or to be instituted by any person, including
  a governmental entity, relating to the use, handling, generation, storage,
  transportation, release or disposal of Hazardous Materials by Tenant, its
  employees, agents, invitees or contractors on, in, beneath, about or from the
  Premises, the Building or the Project; (3) any claim or demand made or
  threatened by any person, including but not limited to a governmental entity,
  against the Landlord or Tenant, the Premises, the Building or the Project
  relating to damages, contribution, cost recovery, compensation, loss or
  injury relating to or claimed to result from any Hazardous Materials that
  have come to be located on or about the Premises, the Building or the
  Project; or (4) any data, workplans, proposals or reports submitted to any
  governmental entity arising out of or in connection with any Hazardous
  Materials on or about the Premises, the Building or the Project, including
  but not limited to any complaints, notices, warnings or asserted violations
  in connection therewith.

            Landlord shall have the right, but not the obligation, in its sole
  discretion, to conduct any inspections of the Premises, the Building and the
  Project regarding Hazardous Materials on, in, beneath or about same.
  Landlord shall give Tenant forty-eight (48) hours advance notice of any such
  inspection, except in the event of an emergency situation.  When conducting
  any such inspections, Landlord shall avoid unreasonably disrupting Tenant's
  activities.  Tenant shall provide Landlord with reasonable cooperation to
  facilitate any such inspection by Landlord, its agents or representatives.

            Under no circumstances shall Tenant install, temporarily or
  permanently, any underground or below-floor tanks relating to the use,
  storage or disposal of Hazardous Materials.

            Prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease, Tenant shall
  decontaminate, remove or clean any equipment, improvements or facilities used
  by Tenant at the Premises, Building or Project in connection with Hazardous
  Materials, in full compliance with applicable Laws.


                                       9

<PAGE>   16

            To the extent any of the provisions of this Lease conflict with the
  provisions of Paragraph 7, the provisions of Paragraph 7 shall be
  controlling.  The obligations of Tenant under this Paragraph 7 shall survive
  the expiration of the Lease term.

       8.   RESTRICTIONS ON USE.  Tenant shall not use or permit the use of the
  Premises in any manner that will tend to create waste on the Premises or
  constitute a nuisance to any other occupant or user of the Building or any
  neighboring building.  Tenant shall not place any harmful liquids or other
  substances in the drainage system of the Building or use any apparatus,
  machinery or other equipment in or about the Premises that may cause
  substantial noise or vibration or overload existing electrical systems, or
  otherwise place any unusual loads upon the floors, walls, or ceilings of the
  Premises which may overload the Premises or jeopardize the structural
  integrity of the Building or any part thereof.  Tenant shall not make any
  penetrations of the roof or exterior of the Building without the prior
  written approval of Landlord.  No materials or articles of any nature shall
  be stored upon any portion of the Outside Areas unless located within an
  enclosure approved by Landlord.
                                  
       9.   Operating Expenses.
            ------------------
            9.1  OPERATING EXPENSES.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord as
  additional rent hereunder one-half (1/2) of Tenant's Share of the total
  amount of Operating Expenses (as defined below) as may be paid or incurred by
  Landlord during the term of this Lease.

                 The term "Operating Expenses" shall mean all costs and
  disbursements which Landlord shall pay or become obligated to pay in
  connection with maintaining, repairing, managing and operating the Project,
  including, without limitation (i) Real Property Taxes, (ii) the insurance
  premiums for insurance which Landlord is required or entitled to maintain
  related to the Project as described below in Paragraph 14, (iii) the
  maintenance, repair and operation of the Project, including but not limited
  to, all labor, materials, supplies and services, and the cost of all
  maintenance contracts, used or consumed in performing Landlord's maintenance
  and repair obligations hereunder, (iv) landscaping costs related to the
  Project, (v) wages, salaries and benefits of all employees or consultants
  engaged in the operation, maintenance and security of the Project, including
  taxes, insurance and benefits relating thereto, (vi) any replacements or
  capital improvements to the Project, except as otherwise specified in
  Paragraph 6.2 above or in Paragraph 10 below, (vii) utility services which
  are not separately metered to the premises of the tenants of the Building,
  and (viii) janitorial services.  Additionally, Tenant's Share of Operating

                                       10
<PAGE>   17

  Expenses shall include a management fee for Landlord's management, operation
  and administration of the Project equal to five percent (5%) of the total
  Operating Expenses hereunder excluding insurance premiums and Real Property
  Taxes.  To the extent the useful life of any improvement or item repaired or
  replaced by Landlord in connection with its maintenance or repair of the
  Project exceeds three (3) years, as reasonably determined by Landlord, the
  cost thereof shall be amortized, together with interest thereon at the
  prevailing rate available to Landlord from commercial banks, over such
  reasonable period as Landlord shall determine and such amortized cost shall
  be included in Operating Expenses.  If the useful life of any such
  improvement or item repaired or replaced is three (3) years or less, then the
  cost thereof shall be deemed expensed and included immediately in its
  entirety in Operating Expenses, except as otherwise specified in Paragraph
  6.2 above or in Paragraph 10 below.

                 In addition to the foregoing, Tenant shall reimburse Landlord
  in full upon demand for any damage to the Premises, the Building or the
  Outside Areas which is caused by Tenant, its agents, employees, contractors
  or invitees.

                 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, it is expressly
  understood that Operating Expenses do not include (i) amounts due under loans
  encumbering the Premises, or payments of rent under ground leases of the
  Premises, (ii) depreciation of the Building or of any building service
  equipment, (iii) brokerage commissions incurred in connection with leasing
  all or any portion of the Building, (iv) attorneys' fees, accounting costs,
  and other costs directly related to leasing space in the Building, (v) damage
  caused by the active negligence, wilful misconduct, or omissions (subject to
  Paragraph 32.1) of the Landlord or its employees, agents, or contractors,
  (vi) damage to the Project caused by any other tenants of the Project, or
  their respective employees, agents, or contractors, and (vii) expenses
  related to repairing construction defects in the Building shell.

                 Tenant shall have the right to inspect the books and records
  of Landlord relating to the calculation of Operating Expenses no more often
  than one time in any twelve month period during the term of the Lease for
  purposes of verifying the accuracy of Landlord's calculation of the amount of
  Operating Expenses.  Tenant shall exercise such right by delivery to Landlord
  of notice of Tenant's desire to so inspect such books and records, and dates
  and times during normal business hours during which Tenant would like to
  inspect the same, whereupon Landlord shall reasonably cooperate with Tenant
  to provide reasonable access to such books and records at Landlord's offices.


                                       11
<PAGE>   18
            9.2  MONTHLY PAYMENTS.  Tenant shall pay to Landlord on the first
  day of each calendar month during the term hereof an amount estimated by
  Landlord to be one-twelfth (1/12) of Tenant's Share of one half (1/2) of the
  Operating Expenses for such twelve (12) month period.  Landlord estimates
  that one-twelfth (1/12) of Tenant's Share of one half (1/2) of the Operating
  Expenses for the initial year of the term will be $2,387 (based on annual
  Operating Expenses for the Project of $132,000).  On or before March 15 of
  each calendar year during the term hereof Landlord shall furnish Tenant a
  statement prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
  principles, consistently applied, covering the preceding calendar year and
  the payments made by Tenant with respect to such period as set forth in this
  Paragraph 9.  If Tenant's payments for Operating Expenses during said period
  did not equal one-half (1/2) of the actual amount of Tenant's share of
  Operating Expenses, Tenant shall pay to Landlord the deficiency with its next
  due installment of Base Rent after receipt of such statement.  If said
  payments exceed the actual amount due hereunder, Landlord shall credit the
  excess against the next installment(s) of Base Rent.  Operating Expenses
  shall be prorated as of the Commencement Date and the Expiration Date (or the
  date of any sooner termination of the term of this Lease) to reflect the
  portion of the calendar year occurring within the lease term.

       10.  Maintenance and Repairs.
            -----------------------
            10.1 TENANT'S OBLIGATIONS.  Except as otherwise specifically
  provided herein, Tenant shall, at Tenant's expense, keep in good and safe
  condition, order and repair the Premises and every part thereof, including
  without limitation, all plumbing, heating, air conditioning, ventilating,
  fire sprinklers, electrical and lighting facilities, systems, appliances, and
  equipment within the Premises; and all fixtures, interior walls, interior
  surfaces of exterior walls, floors, ceilings, windows, doors, entrances, all
  glass (including plate glass), and skylights located within the Premises.
  Prior to the Commencement Date or promptly thereafter, Tenant at its sole
  cost shall install an electrical meter measuring all electrical service
  provided to the Premises, and shall install a new transformer serving only
  the Premises; such installation shall be subject to the provisions of
  Paragraph 11 hereof relating to alterations to the Premises.  Tenant shall,
  at Tenant's expense, maintain at all times during the term of this Lease the
  heating, ventilating and air conditioning ("HVAC") systems serving the
  Premises in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, which maintenance
  at a minimum shall include replacement of filters, oiling and lubricating of
  machinery, parts replacement, adjustment of drive belts, oil changes,
  weatherproofing of all exposed HVAC equipment and ducts, and other preventive
  maintenance; provided, however, that Tenant shall have the benefit of all
  warranties available to Landlord regarding the equipment in said systems.
  Tenant hereby waives the benefit of any statute now or

                                       12
<PAGE>   19

  hereafter in effect which would otherwise afford Tenant the right to make
  repairs at Landlord's expense or to terminate this Lease because of
  Landlord's failure to keep the Premises in good condition, order and repair.
  Tenant specifically waives all rights it may have under Sections 1932(1),
  1941, and 1942 of the California Civil Code, and any similar or successor
  statute or law.

                 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the
  Lease, Tenant shall in no event be responsible for performing, or paying for
  the performance of, repair and maintenance of the Premises or the Building to
  the extent the same: (i) is caused by the active negligence, wilful
  misconduct, or omissions (subject to Paragraph 32.1) of Landlord or its
  agents, employees or contractors, (ii) is necessitated by the negligence or
  wilful misconduct of other tenants in the Building, or their agents,
  employees, or contractors;  (iii) is necessitated by the occurrence of any
  peril required to be insured under policies of insurance required to be
  obtained by Landlord under this Lease, or (iv) results from construction
  defects of the Building.  The liability of Tenant shall also be limited to
  the extent Landlord receives reimbursement from others, including insurers,
  guarantors, other tenants in the Building, and contractors.

            10.2 LANDLORD'S OBLIGATIONS.  Landlord shall keep in good
  condition, order and repair the foundation and exterior walls of the Building
  (excluding the interior of all walls and the exterior and interior of all
  windows, doors, plate glass, and show cases), and the exterior roof of the
  Building (except that Tenant shall repair at Tenant's expense any damage
  caused by the activities of Tenant, Tenant's HVAC maintenance service
  contractor, and/or Tenant's other agents on the roof, including but not
  limited to the installation of air conditioning equipment and/or duct work,
  or other roof penetrations, and improper flashing or caulking, and any damage
  to exposed air conditioning equipment and duct-work installed by or for
  Tenant).  Expenses  incurred by Landlord in connection with the above
  described obligations shall be Operating Expenses hereunder, except for
  expenses incurred in connection with maintaining the roof structure (but not
  the roof membrane), foundation and exterior walls of the Building which shall
  be borne solely by Landlord.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall not
  be required to pay as Operating Expenses the cost of any repair or
  maintenance respecting the roof membrane which Tenant is able to demonstrate
  to the reasonable satisfaction of Landlord is required as a result of
  Landlord's activity on the roof or a defect in construction performed by
  Landlord.  Landlord shall also paint the Building from time to time as
  reasonably necessary, and the cost thereof shall be an Operating Expense.
  Landlord shall exercise reasonable diligence in performing such repairs as
  soon as practicable.  However, Landlord shall have no obligation to make
  repairs under this Paragraph 10.2 until a reasonable time after Landlord's
  receipt of written notice from Tenant of the need for such repairs.

                                       13

<PAGE>   20
  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, there shall be no abatement
  of rent or other sums payable by Tenant prior to or during any repairs by
  Tenant or Landlord, and Tenant waives all claims for loss of business or lost
  profits relating to any such repairs.

            10.3 LANDLORD TO MAINTAIN AND CONTROL OUTSIDE AREAS.  Landlord
  shall maintain the Outside Areas, together with all facilities and
  improvements now or hereafter located thereon, and together with all street
  improvements or other improvements adjacent thereto as may be required from
  time to time by governmental authority.  The manner in which such areas shall
  be maintained and the expenditures therefor shall be at the sole discretion
  of Landlord; provided that Landlord maintains the Outside Areas in such a
  fashion as achieves substantially the same level of quality in which Landlord
  maintained the Outside Areas during PSC's occupancy of the Premises.
  Landlord shall at all times have exclusive control of the Outside Areas and
  may at any time temporarily close any part thereof, may exclude and restrain
  anyone from any part thereof (except the bona fide customers, employees and
  invitees of Tenant who use the Outside Areas in accordance with the rules and
  regulations that Landlord may from time to time promulgate), and Landlord may
  change the configuration of the Outside Areas or the location of facilities
  thereon so long as any such change by Landlord does not unreasonably
  interfere with Tenant's use of the Premises.  Landlord shall also be entitled
  to employ third parties to operate and maintain all or any part of such areas
  on such terms and conditions as Landlord shall in its sole discretion deem
  reasonable and proper.  In exercising any such rights, Landlord shall make a
  reasonable effort to minimize any disruption of Tenant's business.

            10.4 HVAC REPLACEMENT AND PARKING LOT RESURFACING.  If the HVAC
  equipment (or any portion thereof) servicing the office portion of the
  Premises (as opposed to the manufacturing portion of the Premises, for which
  Tenant shall be solely liable for HVAC replacement costs) must be replaced at
  any time during the Lease term, or the parking lot adjacent to the Building
  servicing the tenants of the Building requires Major Resurfacing (as defined
  below), as reasonably determined by Landlord, at any time during the Lease
  term, then the cost of such replacement or resurfacing, as the case may be,
  shall be borne by both Landlord and Tenant in accordance with the following
  formula.  Tenant shall pay such portion of the cost which is equal to 43.4%
  of a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of years remaining in the
  Lease term, and the denominator of which is the useful life (as reasonably
  determined by Landlord) of the new HVAC system, or the resurfaced parking
  lot, as the case may be.  In the event Tenant should exercise any options to
  extend the Lease term which extended terms commence after such replacement or
  resurfacing, then Tenant shall

                                       14

<PAGE>   21
  pay to Landlord upon commencement of each such extended term the difference
  between the amount owed by Tenant pursuant to the immediately preceding
  sentence, and the amount calculated pursuant to the preceding sentence
  assuming that the remaining term of the Lease includes the years of such
  extended term.  For purposes of this subparagraph, "Major Resurfacing" shall
  be defined to mean any resurfacing of the parking lot the cost of which
  exceeds Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00); to the extent the cost of
  resurfacing is less than Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00), then the entire
  cost shall be an Operating Expense in the year in which it is incurred by
  Landlord.

       11.  Alterations.
            -----------            
            11.1 LANDLORD'S CONSENT REQUIRED.  Tenant shall not, without
  Landlord's prior written consent (which consent shall not unreasonably be
  withheld or delayed beyond thirty (30) days after Tenant's written request to
  Landlord to make the same) make any alterations, improvements, additions, or
  utility installations (collectively called "alterations") in, on or about the
  Premises, except for nonstructural alterations which during any twelve (12)
  month period, in the aggregate, cost no more than Twenty Thousand Dollars
  ($20,000).  As used in this Paragraph 11.1, the term "utility installation"
  means power panels, wiring, fluorescent fixtures, space heaters, conduits,
  air conditioning and plumbing.  Should Tenant make any alterations
  requiring the prior written consent of Landlord without obtaining such
  consent, Tenant shall immediately remove the same at Tenant's expense upon
  demand by Landlord.

            11.2 PLANS AND PERMITS.  Any alteration that Tenant shall desire to
  make in or about the Premises and which requires the consent of Landlord
  shall be presented to Landlord in written form, with proposed detailed plans
  and specifications therefor prepared at Tenant's sole expense.  Any consent
  by Landlord thereto shall be deemed conditioned upon Tenant's acquisition of
  all permits required to make such alteration from all appropriate
  governmental agencies, the furnishing of copies thereof to Landlord prior to
  commencement of the work, and the compliance by Tenant with all conditions of
  said permits in a prompt and expeditious manner, all at Tenant's sole
  expense.  Upon completion of any alterations whether or not Landlord's
  consent thereto is required, Tenant, at Tenant's sole cost, shall immediately
  deliver to Landlord "as-built" plans and specifications therefor.

            11.3 CONSTRUCTION WORK DONE BY TENANT.  All construction work
  required or permitted to be done by Tenant shall be performed by licensed
  contractors in a prompt, diligent, and good and workmanlike manner, and shall
  not materially

                                      15

<PAGE>   22
  diminish the value of the Building.  Furthermore, all such construction work
  shall conform in quality and design with the Premises existing as of the time
  such work is performed.  In addition, all such construction work shall be
  performed in compliance with all applicable statutes, ordinances,
  regulations, codes and orders of governmental authorities and insurers of the
  Premises.  Tenant or its agents shall obtain and pay for all licenses and
  permits necessary therefor.

            11.4 ROOF REPAIRS.  All installation of air conditioning equipment
  and duct work requiring penetration of the roof shall be properly flashed and
  caulked.  Any electrical or refrigeration conduits or other piping or
  materials installed by Tenant in the Building shall be installed beneath the
  surface of the roof (and not on the surface of the roof), and Tenant shall
  thereafter repair and re-roof the affected portions of the roof surface.  Any
  equipment placed by Tenant on the roof shall be elevated and supported by
  Tenant so as not to inhibit drainage or Landlord's repair of the roof
  pursuant to Paragraph 10.2.

            11.5 TITLE TO ALTERATIONS.  Except as otherwise provided
  hereinbelow, Tenant shall at all times retain title to any alterations, and
  shall be entitled to claim any depreciation, investment tax credits, and
  other tax benefits available in connection therewith.  Tenant shall also be
  entitled to remove any alterations installed by Tenant at its own expense,
  provided such removal can be accomplished without causing damage to
  structural portions of the Building, and provided further that Tenant at its
  sole expense promptly repairs any and all damage occasioned by such removal.
  If at the time Tenant installs or constructs any alterations, Tenant requests
  and receives Landlord's permission to leave such alterations on the Premises
  upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term, then Tenant shall
  have no obligation to remove the same upon expiration or sooner termination
  of the Lease term.  If Tenant fails at the time of installation to request or
  obtain Landlord's consent to leaving such alterations on the Premises upon
  expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term, then Landlord shall be
  entitled to require Tenant to remove the same and restore the Premises to its
  original condition subject to reasonable wear and tear, perils, and Acts of
  God, prior to expiration or promptly after sooner termination of the Lease
  term, at Tenant's sole cost and expense.  Tenant shall be entitled to leave
  the Tenant Improvements in the Premises upon expiration or sooner termination
  of the Lease term.  Tenant shall be obligated to remove the Additional
  Improvements upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term.  The
  rights of Landlord and obligations of Tenant under this paragraph shall
  survive termination of the Lease term.

                 All alterations and other property of Tenant which remain on
  the Premises upon expiration or sooner termination of the Lease term, subject
  to the
                                      
                                      16
<PAGE>   23
  preceding subparagraph, shall be deemed abandoned by Tenant and at Landlord's
  sole election shall be deemed the sole property of Landlord without need for
  consideration therefor from Landlord to Tenant.

                 Landlord, within ten (10) days after demand from Tenant, shall
  execute and deliver any documents required by any supplier, lessor, or lender
  in connection with the installation in the Premises of Tenant's personal
  property or Tenant's trade fixtures in which Landlord waives any rights it
  may have or require with respect to that property, if the supplier, lessor,
  or lender agrees in writing that (a) it will remove that property from the
  Premises before the expiration of the Lease term or within thirty (30) days
  after sooner termination of the term, provided that if it does not remove the
  property within said period it shall have waived any rights it may have had
  to the property, and (b) it shall repair any damage to the Premises
  occasioned by such removal at its sole cost and expense within five (5) days
  after such removal.

            11.6 MECHANICS' LIENS.  Tenant shall keep the Premises, the
  Building, and the Project free from any liens arising out of any work
  performed, materials furnished or obligations incurred by Tenant.  In the
  event that Tenant shall not, within ten (10) days following the imposition of
  any such lien, cause the same to be released of record, Landlord shall have,
  in addition to all other remedies provided herein and by law, the right, but
  no obligation, to cause the same to be released by such means as Landlord
  shall deem proper, including payment of the claim giving rise to such lien.
  All sums paid by Landlord for such purpose, and all reasonable expenses
  incurred by it in connection therewith, shall be  payable to Landlord by
  Tenant on demand with interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum, or
  the maximum rate permitted by law, whichever is less.  Tenant shall give
  Landlord notice of the date of commencement of any work in the Premises not
  less than ten (10) days prior thereto, and Landlord shall have the right to
  post notices of non-responsibility or similar notices in or on the Premises
  in connection therewith.          

       12.  UTILITIES.  Prior to Tenant's occupancy of the Premises, or
  promptly thereafter, Tenant at its sole cost shall separately meter all
  utilities serving the Premises.  For all periods of time prior to such
  separate metering, Tenant shall pay fifty percent (50%) of all utilities
  costs which are not separately metered and which are provided to the
  Building.  Such separate metering shall be deemed an alteration of the
  Premises which is subject to the provisions of Paragraph 11 above.  Tenant
  shall pay when due directly to the charging authority all charges for water,
  gas, electricity, telephone, refuse pickup, janitorial services, and all
  other utilities and services supplied or furnished to the Premises during the
  term of this Lease, together with any taxes thereon.  In no event shall
  Landlord be liable to Tenant for failure or

                                      17
<PAGE>   24
  interruption of any such utilities or services, unless caused by the willful
  misconduct of Landlord, and no such failure or interruption shall entitle 
  Tenant to terminate this Lease or to withhold rent or other sums due 
  hereunder.  Landlord shall not be responsible for providing security guards 
  or other security protection for all or any portion of the Premises, and 
  Tenant shall at its own expense provide or obtain such security services as 
  Tenant shall desire to insure the safety of the Premises.
               
       13.  Indemnity.
            ---------
            13.1 INDEMNITY BY TENANT.  Tenant shall indemnify, protect, defend,
  and hold harmless Landlord from and against any and all claims, damages,
  loss, proceedings, causes of action, costs, expense or liability due to, but
  not limited to, bodily injury, including death resulting at any time
  therefrom, and/or property damage, now or hereafter arising from any act,
  work or things done or permitted to be done or otherwise suffered, or any
  omission in or about the Premises, the Building, or the Project, by Tenant or
  by any of Tenant's agents, employees, contractors, or invitees, or from any
  breach or default by Tenant in the performance of any obligation on the part
  of Tenant to be performed under the terms of this Lease, except to the extent
  such damage, loss, expense or liability is caused by the active negligence,
  willful misconduct or omission (subject to Paragraph 32.1) of Landlord or its
  agents, employees or contractors.  Tenant shall also indemnify Landlord from
  and against all damage, loss, expense (including without limitation,
  attorneys' fees, costs of investigation, and expert witness fees), and
  liability incurred or suffered by Landlord in the defense of or arising out
  of or resulting from any claim or any action or proceeding brought thereon.
  In the event any action or proceeding shall be brought against Landlord by
  reason of any such claim, Tenant upon notice from Landlord shall defend the
  same at Tenant's expense with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Landlord.
  The obligations of Tenant contained in this paragraph shall survive the
  termination of this Lease.

            13.2 INDEMNITY BY LANDLORD.  Landlord hereby indemnifies Tenant
  from and against all damages arising out of any damage to any person or
  property occurring in, on or about the Premises and the Building resulting
  from the active negligence, wilful misconduct, or omissions (subject to
  Paragraph 32.1) of Landlord or its employees, agents and contractors, or from
  a breach of Landlord's obligations under the Lease, except to the extent
  caused by the acts or omissions of Tenant or its authorized representatives.
  Landlord's obligation under this paragraph to indemnify Tenant shall be
  limited to the sum that exceeds the amount of insurance proceeds, if any,
  received by Tenant as a result of such damage.
                                       
                                      18
<PAGE>   25

            Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision in this Lease,
  Landlord shall in no event be liable to Tenant for lost profits of Tenant
  unless the same result from the wilful misconduct of Landlord, and Tenant
  hereby releases Landlord from liability for any such loss profits to such
  extent.  This provision shall not be construed to release Landlord from any
  claim for damages arising from Landlord's wilful misconduct, to the extent
  such damages do not relate to lost profits.

       14.  Insurance.
            ---------
            14.1 TENANT'S LIABILITY INSURANCE.  Tenant shall, at its sole cost
  and expense, obtain and keep in force during the term of this Lease either
  Comprehensive General Liability insurance or Commercial General Liability
  insurance applying to the use and occupancy of the Premises and the business
  operated by Tenant, or any other occupant, on the Premises.  Such insurance
  shall include Broad Form Contractual liability insurance coverage.  Such
  coverage shall have a minimum combined single limit of liability of at least
  Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000).  All such policies shall be written to
  apply to all bodily injury, property damage, personal injury and other
  covered loss, however occasioned.  All such policies shall be endorsed to add
  Landlord and any lender or other party having an interest in the Premises
  named by Landlord as an additional insured and to provide that any insurance
  maintained by Landlord shall be excess insurance only.  All such insurance
  shall provide for severability of interests; shall provide that an act or
  omission of one of the insureds shall not reduce or avoid coverage to the
  other insureds; and shall afford coverage for all claims based on acts,
  omissions, injury and damage, which claims occurred or arose (or the onset of
  which occurred or arose) in whole or in part during the policy period.  The
  limits of all insurance described in this Paragraph 14.1 shall not, however,
  limit the liability of Tenant hereunder.

            14.2 LANDLORD'S PROPERTY INSURANCE.  Landlord shall obtain and keep
  in force during the term of this Lease a policy or policies of insurance
  covering loss or damage to the Project in the amount of the full replacement
  value thereof, providing protection against all perils included within the
  classification of fire, extended coverage, vandalism, malicious mischief,
  special extended perils (all risk), including boiler and machinery coverage
  and an inflation endorsement, and, if available, flood and/or earthquake.
  Such coverage shall include the Tenant Improvements described on EXHIBIT "C",
  but shall exclude coverage of (i) the Additional Improvements described on
  Exhibit "D" and all other leasehold improvements, additions, and alterations
  other than the Tenant Improvements described on EXHIBIT "C" existing from
  time to time on the Premises, and (iii) merchandise, fixtures, equipment and
  other personal property of Tenant.  In addition, Landlord shall obtain and
  keep in force,

                                      19
<PAGE>   26

  during the term of this Lease, a policy of rental loss insurance
  covering a period of one year, commencing on the date of loss, with proceeds
  payable to Landlord, which insurance may also cover all Real Property Taxes,
  insurance premiums, other Operating Expenses, and other sums payable by
  Tenant to Landlord hereunder for said period.  The insurance coverage may
  include sprinkler leakage insurance if the Building contains fire sprinklers. 
  Tenant shall have no interest in or right to the proceeds of any such
  insurance carried by Landlord.

                 Landlord shall make available to Tenant for Tenant's
  inspection all insurance bills received by Landlord from time to time
  relating to insurance required to be obtained by Landlord pursuant to this
  paragraph.  It is understood that Landlord's insurance policy covering the
  Premises shall also cover the full replacement value of the Tenant
  Improvements, and that the proceeds of such insurance shall belong to
  Landlord and Tenant shall have no interest therein.  In the event Tenant
  reasonably demonstrates to Landlord that Landlord can obtain insurance for
  the Premises, or the Building if Landlord obtains insurance for the entire
  Building rather than the Premises alone, at a rate which is 90% or less of
  the premiums charged for such insurance as has been obtained by Landlord,
  then Landlord at Tenant's written request shall obtain a policy of property
  insurance at such lower rate, provided such policy can be obtained with an
  insurer authorized to do business in the State of California which insurer
  has a financial rating of at least A 14 as rated in the most recent addition
  of Best's Insurance Reports, and such policy has reasonably comparable
  coverage and deductible amounts.  Tenant shall not be required to pay any
  increases in property insurance costs to the extent such increases are caused
  by other tenants' uses of the Building in which the Premises are located.
  Similarly, Tenant shall be solely liable for any increases in property
  insurance costs to the extent such increases are caused by Tenant's use of
  the Premises or Tenant's activities thereon.

            14.3 TENANT'S PROPERTY INSURANCE.  Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole
  expense, obtain and keep in force during the term of this Lease, a policy of
  fire and extended coverage insurance including a standard "all risk"
  endorsement, insuring (i) the Additional Improvements described on EXHIBIT
  "D" and all other leasehold improvements, additions, and alterations existing
  from time to time in or to the Premises other than the Tenant Improvements
  described on EXHIBIT "C", and (iii) merchandise, fixtures, equipment and
  other personal property of Tenant within the Premises.  Such insurance
  coverage shall be for the full replacement value thereof, as the same may
  increase from time to time due to inflation or otherwise.  The proceeds from
  any such policies shall be used for the repair or replacement of such items
  so insured (except for the proceeds arising from damage to the Additional
  Improvements, which may be used as Tenant desires for purposes which may be

                                      20

<PAGE>   27

  unrelated to repair or replacement of the Additional Improvements), and
  Landlord shall have no interest in the proceeds of such insurance.

            14.4 PAYMENT.  Tenant's Share of the premiums for the insurance
  obtained by Landlord pursuant to Paragraph 14.2 shall be deemed an Operating
  Expense hereunder.  Upon request by Tenant, Landlord shall consult with
  Tenant and reasonably cooperate with Tenant to achieve the mix of premium
  amounts and deductible amounts for such insurance that are satisfactory to
  Tenant; provided that, Landlord's determination of the amounts thereof shall
  be final and Tenant's comments regarding same shall be advisory only.  Tenant
  shall pay to Landlord the entire amount of any deductibles and other amounts
  not paid by Landlord's insurance carriers relating to claims under Landlord's
  insurance policies resulting from the acts or omissions of Tenant, or its
  agents, employees, and invitees.  Tenant shall pay such deductibles to
  Landlord within thirty (30) days after receipt by Tenant of a copy of
  reasonable evidence of the amount due.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
  Landlord may obtain liability insurance and property insurance for the
  Project separately, or together with other buildings and improvements under
  blanket policies of insurance.  In the latter case Tenant shall be liable for
  only such portion of the premiums for such blanket policies as are allocable
  to the Premises, as reasonably determined by the insurer or Landlord.  If the
  term of this Lease does not commence or expire concurrently with the
  commencement or expiration, respectively, of the period covered by such
  insurance, Tenant's liability for premiums shall be prorated on an annual
  basis.

            14.5 INSURANCE POLICIES.  The insurance required to be obtained by
  Tenant pursuant to this paragraph shall be primary insurance and (a) shall
  provide that the insurer shall be liable for the full amount of the loss up
  to and including the total amount of liability set forth in the declarations
  without the right of contribution from any other insurance coverage of
  Landlord, (b) shall be in a form and contain a deductible amount satisfactory
  to Landlord, (c) shall be carried with companies acceptable to Landlord, and
  (d) shall specifically provide that such policies shall not be subject to
  cancellation, reduction of coverage or other change except after at least
  fifteen (15) days prior written notice to Landlord.  The policy or policies,
  or duly executed certificates for them, together with satisfactory evidence
  of payment of the premium thereon, shall be deposited with Landlord on or
  prior to the Commencement Date, and upon each renewal of such policies, which
  shall be effected not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the expiration
  date of the term of such coverage.  Tenant shall not do or permit to be done
  anything which shall invalidate any of the insurance policies referred to in
  this Paragraph 14.

                                      21
<PAGE>   28

            14.6 WAIVER OF SUBROGATION.  Tenant and Landlord each hereby waives
  any and all rights of recovery against the other, or against the officers,
  employees, agents and representatives of the other, for loss of or damage to
  the property of the waiving party or the property of others under its
  control, where such loss or damage is insured against under any insurance
  policy carried by Landlord or Tenant and in force at the time of such loss or
  damage.  Tenant and Landlord shall, upon obtaining the policies of insurance
  required hereunder, give notice to the insurance carrier or carriers that the
  foregoing mutual waiver of subrogation is contained in this Lease.  Landlord
  and Tenant shall use their best efforts to cause each insurance policy
  obtained by such party to provide that the insurance company waives all
  rights of recovery by way of subrogation against the other party in
  connection with any damage covered by such policy and, if any such waiver of
  subrogation is not obtained, shall promptly notify the other party of such
  fact.

            14.7 NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  Landlord makes no representation
  that the limits of liability specified to be carried by Tenant or Landlord
  under the terms of this Lease are adequate to protect any party.  If Tenant
  believes that the insurance coverage required under this Lease is
  insufficient to adequately protect Tenant, Tenant shall provide, at its own
  expense, such additional insurance as Tenant deems adequate.

       15.  Damage or Destruction.
            ---------------------
            15.1 PARTIAL DAMAGE - INSURED.  Subject to the provisions of
  Paragraphs 15.3 and 15.4 below, if the Premises or the Building, as the case
  may be, are damaged such that restoration thereof can in Landlord's
  reasonable estimation be completed within two hundred ten (210) days, and the
  damage is caused by a peril required to be insured against by Landlord
  pursuant to Paragraph 14, Landlord shall at Landlord's expense repair such
  damage as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall continue in full
  force and effect.  In the event Landlord maintains earthquake insurance
  (which the parties acknowledge Landlord is not obligated by this Lease to
  carry), then subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 15.3 and 15.4 below, if
  the Premises or the Building, as the case may be, are damaged such that
  restoration thereof can in Landlord's reasonable estimation be completed
  within two hundred ten (210) days, and the damage is caused by earthquake,
  Landlord shall, subject to the following provisions of this Paragraph 15.1,
  repair such damage as soon as reasonably possible and this Lease shall
  continue in full force and effect.  At such time as the amount of the
  deductible for the earthquake damage is determined by the insurance company
  and Landlord agrees to such amount, Landlord shall deliver notice thereof to
  Tenant.  On or before the Tenant's Share Payment Date (as defined below),
  Tenant

                                      22
<PAGE>   29
  shall deliver to a depository in accordance with the provisions of
  Paragraph 15.10 the following sums in cash or other readily available funds: 
  (i) 43.4% of the amount by which the amount of such deductible exceeds Fifty
  Thousand Dollars ($50,000), provided that Tenant shall not be obligated to
  pay more than 43.4% of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) under this
  subparagraph (i), and (ii) 43.4% of one half of the amount by which such
  deductible exceeds One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000).  The formula set
  forth in the preceding sentence is based upon the Landlord paying the first
  Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) of the earthquake deductible, all tenants in
  the Building together paying the next Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) of the
  earthquake deductible, and Landlord on the one hand and said Building tenants
  on the other hand each paying one half of any earthquake deductible amount
  exceeding One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000) (all such amounts payable
  by all tenants of the Building herein called the "Aggregate Building Tenants'
  Share").  The "Tenant's Share Payment Date" shall mean (i) fifteen (15) days
  after Landlord delivers notice to Tenant of the deductible amount if the
  amount of the earthquake deductible payable by Tenant pursuant to the
  foregoing is Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000) or less, and (ii) forty five
  (45) days after Landlord delivers notice to Tenant of the deductible amount
  if the amount payable by Tenant is more than Fifty Thousand Dollars
  ($50,000).  In the event Tenant fails to pay such amount for any reason by
  the Tenant's Share Payment Date, or in the event Landlord does not receive by
  the Tenant's Share Payment Date the Aggregate Building Tenants' Share, then
  Landlord shall have no obligation to commence or complete repair of such
  earthquake damage, and shall be entitled to terminate this Lease by delivery
  to Tenant of notice of such termination within ten (10) days after the
  Tenant's Share Payment Date; provided that Landlord shall be entitled to, but
  shall have no obligation to, repair all such earthquake damage at Landlord's
  expense, including payment of the deductible, such election to so repair to
  be made by Landlord's delivery of notice thereof to Tenant within ten (10)
  days after the Tenant's Share Payment Date, in which event this Lease shall
  remain in full force and effect.

            15.2 PARTIAL DAMAGE - UNINSURED.  Subject to the provisions of
  Paragraphs 15.3 and 15.4, if at any time during the term hereof the Premises
  are damaged and the damage is caused by a peril (other than earthquake) not
  required to be insured by Landlord pursuant to Paragraph 14, Landlord may at
  Landlord's option either (a) repair such damage as soon as reasonably
  possible at Landlord's expense, in which event this Lease shall continue in
  full force and effect, or (b) give written notice of termination of this
  Lease to Tenant within thirty (30) days after the date of the occurrence of
  such damage, with the effective date of such termination to be the date of
  the occurrence of such damage.  In the event Landlord gives such notice of
  termination of this Lease, Tenant shall have the right, within ten (10) days
  after receipt

                                      23
<PAGE>   30
  of such notice, to agree in writing on a basis satisfactory to Landlord to
  pay for the entire cost of repairing such damage less only the amount of
  insurance proceeds, if any, received by Landlord, in which event the notice
  of termination shall be ineffective and this Lease shall continue in full
  force and effect, and Landlord shall proceed to make such repairs as soon as
  reasonably possible.  If Tenant does not give such notice within such ten
  (10) day period, this Lease shall be terminated pursuant to such notice of
  termination by Landlord.

            15.3 TOTAL DESTRUCTION.  If at any time during the term hereof the
  Premises are destroyed such that restoration thereof cannot in Landlord's
  reasonable estimation be completed in two hundred ten (210) days, from any
  cause whether or not covered by the insurance maintained pursuant to
  Paragraph 14, this Lease shall at the election of Landlord or Tenant
  terminate as of the date of such destruction.  Landlord and Tenant shall
  exercise their respective rights to terminate this Lease under this
  subparagraph 15.3 by delivery of notice of termination to the other within
  thirty (30) days after Landlord notifies Tenant of the estimated period of
  restoration.  In the event neither party elects to so terminate this Lease,
  Landlord shall at Landlord's expense repair such damage, and restore the
  Premises and the Tenant Improvements to their condition existing immediately
  prior to such damage as soon as reasonably possible, and this Lease shall
  continue in full force and effect.

            15.4 DAMAGE NEAR END OF TERM.  If the Premises are destroyed or
  damaged in whole or in part to the extent of One Hundred Thousand Dollars
  ($100,00.00) or more whether from an insured or uninsured casualty, during
  the last year of the term of this Lease, either party may at its option
  cancel and terminate this Lease as of the date of occurrence of such damage
  by giving written notice to the other party within thirty (30) days after the
  date of occurrence of such damage.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Tenant
  is then entitled to exercise any option to extend the term of this Lease
  pursuant to other provisions of this Lease, and Tenant exercises such option
  in accordance with such provision, then this Lease shall not be terminated
  under this subparagraph (although it may be terminated in accordance with
  subparagraph 15.3 above or other provisions of this Lease, to the extent
  applicable).

            15.5 ABATEMENT OF RENT.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
  contained in this Lease, if the Premises are damaged, the Base Rent payable
  hereunder for the period commencing on the occurrence of such damage shall be
  abated until completion of repair or restoration of such damage, or
  termination of the Lease (if the Lease is terminated pursuant to other
  provisions of this Lease).  Such abatement of Base Rent shall be in
  proportion to the extent to which Tenant's use of the Premises is impaired
  during said period of time; provided that, nothing herein shall

                                      24

<PAGE>   31
  be construed to preclude Landlord from being entitled to collect the
  full amount of any rental loss insurance proceeds.  In addition to abatement
  of Base Rent, Tenant's obligation to pay Operating Expenses shall also be
  abated to the extent of proceeds therefor, if any, received by Landlord under
  the rent abatement policy required to be maintained by Landlord under
  Paragraph 14.2 above.  Except for such abatement of Base Rent and Operating
  Expenses, if any, and subject to Paragraph 13.2, Tenant shall have no claim
  against Landlord for any damage suffered by reason of any such damage,
  destruction, repair or restoration.

            15.6  WAIVER.  Tenant waives the provisions of California Civil Code
  Sections 1932(2) and 1933(4), and any similar or successor statutes relating
  to termination of leases when the thing leased is substantially or entirely
  destroyed, and agrees that any such occurrence shall instead be governed by
  the terms of this Lease.

            15.7  TENANT'S PROPERTY.  Landlord's obligation to rebuild or
  restore shall not include restoration of the Additional Improvements, or
  Tenant's trade fixtures, equipment, merchandise, or any other improvements,
  alterations or additions made by Tenant to the Premises after the
  Commencement Date or made by PSC at any time during its occupancy of the
  Premises from 1985 through May of 1995.

            15.8  NOTICE OF DAMAGE.  Tenant shall notify Landlord within five
  (5) days after the occurrence thereof of any damage to all or any portion of
  the Premises.  In no event shall Landlord have any obligation to repair or
  restore the Premises pursuant to this Paragraph 15 until a reasonable period
  of time after Landlord's receipt of notice from Tenant of the nature and
  scope of any damage to the Premises, and a reasonable period of time to
  collect insurance proceeds arising from such damage (unless such damage is
  clearly not covered by insurance then in effect covering the Premises).
  Landlord shall proceed diligently to collect insurance proceeds, and shall
  commence any obligation it may have to repair the Premises as promptly as
  reasonably possible.

            15.9  REPLACEMENT COST.  The determination by a third party expert
  or consultant, selected by Landlord in its reasonable discretion, of the
  estimated period of repair of any damage shall be conclusive for purposes of
  this Paragraph 15.  Such determination shall be made within thirty (30) days
  of the date of damage, provided Tenant notifies Landlord of such damage in
  accordance with subparagraph 15.8 above.

            15.10 DISBURSEMENT ACCOUNT.  In the event Landlord is required
  to restore the Premises pursuant to any of the provisions of this Paragraph
  15, then Landlord shall deposit any insurance proceeds received in connection
  therewith with


                                      25
<PAGE>   32

  an institutional trustee or other depository reasonably acceptable to Tenant,
  and the proceeds of such insurance shall be drawn from time to time to cover
  costs of such restoration only upon submission by Landlord of invoices for
  such costs or other reasonable evidence of Landlord of the costs incurred to
  the date of such requested draw.

       16.  Condemnation.
            ------------
            16.1 PARTIAL TAKING.  Subject to Paragraph 16.5, if part of the
  Premises is taken for any public or quasi-public use, under any statute or
  right of eminent domain (collectively a "taking"), and a part of the Premises
  remains which is reasonably suitable for Tenant's continued occupancy for the
  uses permitted by this Lease, and a portion of the parking area within the
  Project remains which is equivalent to at least eighty percent (80%) of the
  parking area in the Project as of the Commencement Date, this Lease shall, as
  to the part so taken, terminate as of the date the condemnor or purchaser
  takes possession of the property being taken, and the monthly Base Rent
  payable hereunder shall be reduced in the same proportion that the floor area
  of the portion of the Premises so taken bears to the floor area of the
  Premises immediately prior to such taking.  Landlord shall, at its own cost
  and expense, make all necessary repairs or alterations to the Premises in
  order to make the portion of the Premises not taken a complete architectural
  unit.  Such work shall not, however, exceed the scope of the work done by
  Landlord in originally constructing the Premises.  Each party hereto waives
  the provisions of California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1265.130
  allowing either party to petition the superior court to terminate this Lease
  in the event of a partial taking of the Premises.

            16.2 TOTAL TAKING.  Subject to Paragraph 16.5, if all of the
  Premises are taken, or such part thereof is taken so that there does not
  remain a portion of the Premises suitable for Tenant's continued occupancy
  for the uses permitted hereunder, or more than twenty percent (20%) of the
  parking area in the Project as of the Commencement Date is taken, such taking
  shall be treated as a total taking and this Lease shall terminate upon the
  date possession shall be taken by the condemning authority.

            16.3 DISTRIBUTION OF AWARD.  All compensation awarded upon a taking
  governed by Paragraph 16.1 or Paragraph 16.2 shall belong to and be paid to
  Landlord, except that Tenant shall be entitled to make a separate claim to
  the taking authority for all losses it suffers as a consequence of the
  taking, including losses relating to loss of use of the Additional
  Improvements.

                                      26
<PAGE>   33

            16.4 SALE UNDER THREAT OF CONDEMNATION.  A sale by Landlord to any
  authority having the power of eminent domain, either under threat of
  condemnation or while condemnation proceedings are pending, shall be deemed a
  taking under the power of eminent domain for purposes of this Paragraph 16.

            16.5 TEMPORARY TAKING.  If all or any part of the Premises is
  occupied, taken, or appropriated by military or other public or quasi-public
  use or other governmental authority for less than one hundred eighty (180)
  consecutive days, it shall not constitute a taking of the Premises which
  would be governed by Paragraph 16.1 or Paragraph 16.2.  In such event, during
  such a "temporary taking," all of the provisions of this Lease shall remain
  in force and effect, except that the monthly Base Rent and Operating Expenses
  payable during such temporary taking shall be reduced in the same proportion
  that the floor area of the portion of the Premises so occupied, taken, or
  appropriated bears to the floor area of the Premises as of the day
  immediately preceding the occupation, taking, or appropriation.  Any award
  that may be paid in connection with such a temporary taking shall be paid to
  Landlord.  In the event a taking which appears, at its commencement, to be
  only a temporary taking nevertheless continues for one hundred eighty (180)
  consecutive days or more, a partial or total taking, as the case may be,
  shall be deemed to have occurred on the one hundred eightieth (180th)
  consecutive day of such taking, and shall be governed by the provisions of
  either Paragraph 16.1 or Paragraph 16.2 as the case may be.

      17.   Assignment and Subletting.
            -------------------------
            17.1 PROHIBITION OF ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING.  Tenant shall not
  assign this Lease, or any interest therein, voluntarily or involuntarily, and
  shall not sublet the Premises or any part thereof, or any right or privilege
  appurtenant thereto, or suffer any other person (the agents and servants of
  Tenant excepted) to occupy or use the Premises, or any portion thereof,
  without the prior written consent of Landlord in each instance pursuant to
  the terms and conditions set forth below, which consent shall not
  unreasonably be withheld or delayed beyond the twenty (20) day period
  specified in Paragraph 17.2.  Any assignment or subletting by Tenant without
  the written consent of Landlord shall be void and shall, at the option of
  Landlord, terminate this Lease.

            17.2 DOCUMENTATION.  Prior to any assignment or sublease which
  Tenant desires to make, Tenant shall provide to Landlord the name and address
  of the proposed assignee or sublessee, a statement of the proposed use of the
  Premises by the assignee or sublessee (including an indication of the extent
  to and manner in which Hazardous Materials will be utilized), and true and
  complete copies of all documents relating to Tenant's prospective agreement
  to assign or sublease, and shall specify all

                                      27

<PAGE>   34
  consideration to be received by Tenant for such assignment or sublease in the
  form of lump sum payments, installments of rent, or otherwise.  For purposes
  of this Paragraph 17, the term "consideration" shall include, without
  limitation, all monies or other consideration of any kind, if such sums are
  related to Tenant's interest in this Lease or in the Premises, including but
  not limited to, bonus money, and payments (in excess of book value thereof)
  for Tenant's assets, fixtures, inventory, accounts, good will, equipment,
  furniture, general intangibles, and any capital stock or other equity
  ownership of Tenant.  Within twenty (20) days after the receipt of such
  written notice, Landlord shall either consent in writing to such proposed
  assignment or sublease subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set
  forth, or notify Tenant in writing that Landlord  refuses such consent,
  specifying reasonable grounds for such refusal.

            17.3 TERMS AND CONDITIONS.  As a condition to Landlord's granting
  its consent to any assignment or sublease, Tenant and the proposed assignee
  or sublessee must demonstrate to Landlord's reasonable satisfaction that the
  assignee or sublessee is financially responsible and that the proposed use
  does not pose an unreasonable risk (as determined by Landlord in its
  reasonable discretion) of contamination of the Project with Hazardous
  Materials and is not otherwise injurious to the Premises.  Without limiting
  the generality of the foregoing, Landlord shall be entitled to withhold
  consent to any proposed assignment of this Lease unless Tenant demonstrates
  to the reasonable satisfaction of Landlord that the proposed assignee has a
  net worth equal to at least the greater of (a) Eleven Million Dollars
  ($11,000,000.00), or (b) such greater net worth as Analog Devices, Inc. or
  its successor may have at the time of such proposed assignment, up to
  Eighteen Million Dollars ($18,000,000.00).  As a condition for granting its
  consent to any proposed assignment or subletting, Landlord may require that
  Tenant agree to pay to Landlord, as additional rent, as and when received by
  Tenant, and after first deducting reasonable real estate brokerage
  commissions and attorneys' fees, if any, incurred in connection with such
  assignment or subletting, fifty percent (50%) of the excess, if any, of (i)
  the fair market value rent (triple net) of the Premises, determined as set
  forth below, assuming such amount is payable for the duration of the term of
  such assignment or sublease, over (ii) the Base Rent payable by Tenant to
  Landlord under the Lease at the time of such sublease or assignment, assuming
  such amount is payable for the duration of the term of such assignment or
  sublease.  The fair market value rent for the Premises, for purposes of the
  preceding sentence, shall be determined without regard to the value added to
  the Premises by the specialized additions and improvements to the Premises
  installed by Tenant at its own expense or previously installed by PSC at
  PSC's expense solely for its manufacturing business on the Premises, such as
  clean rooms, process equipment, and trade fixtures.  In the event Landlord
  and Tenant are unable to agree upon the fair market value rent

                                      28
<PAGE>   35

  of the Premises, the dispute shall be arbitrated in accordance with the rules
  of the American Arbitration Association.

                 Tenant may assign its interest in the Lease without the prior
  written consent of Landlord to any corporation which controls or is
  controlled by Analog Devices, Inc., or any corporation which results from a
  merger or consolidation with Analog Devices, Inc.; provided that such
  assignment is made to an entity that satisfies the net worth criteria set
  forth hereinabove.

                 Each assignment or sublease agreement to which Landlord has
  consented shall be an instrument in writing in form satisfactory to Landlord,
  and shall be executed by both Tenant and the assignee or sublessee, as the
  case may be.  Each such assignment or sublease agreement shall recite that it
  is and shall be subject and subordinate to the provisions of this Lease, that
  the assignee or sublessee accepts such assignment or sublease and agrees to
  perform all of the obligations of Tenant hereunder, and that the termination
  of this Lease shall, at Landlord's sole election, constitute a termination of
  every such assignment or sublease.  In the event Landlord shall consent to an
  assignment or sublease, Analog Devices, Inc. shall nonetheless remain
  primarily liable for all obligations and liabilities of Tenant under this
  Lease, including but not limited to the payment of rent.

       18.  Events of Default and Remedies.
            ------------------------------
            18.1 EVENTS OF DEFAULT.  A breach of this Lease shall exist if any
  of the following events (hereinafter referred to as "Event of Default") shall
  occur:

                 (1)  Failure of Tenant to pay within five (5) days after
  delivery of notice from Landlord that any installment of rent of other
  payment required to be made by Tenant hereunder is due;

                 (2)  Tenant's failure to perform any other term, covenant or
  condition contained in this Lease and such failure shall have continued for
  thirty (30) days after written notice of such failure is delivered to Tenant
  or such longer period as may reasonably be necessary to cure such failure
  provided Tenant commences such cure within said thirty (30) days and
  thereafter diligently prosecutes the same to completion;

                 (3)  Tenant's vacating or abandonment of Premises;

                 (4)  Tenant's assignment of its assets for the benefit of its
  creditors;

                                      29
<PAGE>   36

                 (5)  The sequestration of, attachment of, or execution on, any
  substantial part of the property of Tenant or on a property essential to the
  conduct of Tenant's business, shall have occurred and Tenant shall have
  failed to obtain a return or release of such property within thirty (30) days
  thereafter, or prior to sale pursuant to such sequestration, attachment of
  whichever is earlier; or

                 (6)  A court having jurisdiction shall have made or entered
  any decree or order (a) adjudging Tenant to be bankrupt or insolvent, (b)
  approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization of Tenant or an
  arrangement under the bankruptcy laws or any other applicable debtors' relief
  law or statute of the United States or any State thereof, (c) appointing a
  receiver, trustee or assignee of Tenant in bankruptcy or insolvency or for
  its property, or (d) directing the winding up or liquidation of Tenant; and
  such decree or order shall have continued for a period of thirty (30) days;
  or Tenant shall have voluntarily submitted to or filed a petition seeking any
  such decree of order.

            18.2 REMEDIES.  Upon any Event of Default, Landlord shall have the
  following remedies, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided by
  law, to which Landlord may resort cumulatively, or in the alternative:

                 (1)  RECOVERY OF RENT.  Landlord shall be entitled to keep
  this Lease in full force and effect (whether or not Tenant shall have
  abandoned the Premises) and to enforce all of its rights and remedies under
  this Lease, including the right to recover rent and other sums as they become
  due, plus interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum from the due
  date of each installment of rent or other sum until paid.

                 (2)  TERMINATION.  Landlord may terminate this Lease by giving
  Tenant written notice of termination.  On the giving of such notice all
  Tenant's rights in the Premises and the Building and parcel of which the
  Premises are a part shall terminate.  Upon the giving of the notice of
  termination, Tenant shall surrender and vacate the Premises in the condition
  required by Paragraph 26, and Landlord may reenter and take possession of the
  Premises and all the remaining improvements and property and eject Tenant or
  any of Tenant's subtenants, assignees or other person or persons claiming any
  right under or through Tenant or eject some and not others or eject none.
  This Lease may also be terminated by a judgement specifically providing for
  termination.  Any termination under this paragraph shall not release Tenant
  from the payment of any sum then due Landlord or from any claim for damages
  or rent previously accrued or then accruing against Tenant.  In no event
  shall any one or more of the following actions by Landlord constitute a
  termination of this Lease:

                                      30
<PAGE>   37

                      (a)  maintenance and preservation of the Premises;

                      (b)  efforts to relet the Premises;

                      (c)  appointment of a receiver in order to protect
  Landlord's interest hereunder;

                      (d)  consent to any subletting of the Premises or
  assignment of this Lease by Tenant, whether pursuant to provisions hereof
  concerning subletting and assignment or otherwise; or

                      (e)  any other action by Landlord or Landlord's agents
  intended to mitigate the adverse effects from any breach of this Lease by
  Tenant.

                 (3)  DAMAGES.  In the event this Lease is terminated pursuant
  to subparagraph 18.2(2) above, Landlord shall be entitled to damages in the
  following sums:
                      (a)  the worth at the time of award of the unpaid rent
  which had been earned at the time of termination; plus

                      (b)  the worth at the time of award of the amount by
  which the unpaid rent which would have been earned after termination until
  the time of award exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves
  could have been reasonably avoided; plus

                      (c)  the worth at the time of award of the amount by
  which the unpaid rent for the balance of the term after the time of award
  exceeds the amount of such rental loss that Tenant proves could be reasonably
  avoided; and

                      (d)  any other amounts necessary to compensate Landlord
  for all the detriment proximately caused by Tenant's failure to perform
  Tenant's obligations under this Lease, or which in the ordinary course of
  things would be likely to result therefrom including, without limitation, the
  following: (i) expenses for cleaning, repairing or restoring the Premises;
  (ii) expenses for altering, remodeling or otherwise improving the Premises
  for the purposes of reletting; (iii) costs of carrying the Premises such as
  taxes and insurance premiums thereon, utilities and security precautions;
  (iv) expenses in retaking possession of the Premises; (v) attorneys' fees and
  court costs; and (vi) any unamortized real estate brokerage commission paid
  in connection with this Lease.

                                      31
<PAGE>   38

                      (e)  The "worth at the time of award" of the amounts
  referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph is computed by
  allowing interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per annum.  The "worth at
  the time of award" of the amount referred to in subparagraph (c) of this
  paragraph is computed by discounting such amount at the discount rate of the
  Federal Reserve Board of San Francisco at the time of award plus one percent
  (1%).  The term "rent" as used in this paragraph shall include all sums
  required to be paid by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to the terms of this
  Lease.

       19.  ADVERTISEMENTS AND SIGNS.  Tenant shall not place or permit to be
  placed any sign, display, advertisement, or decoration ("sign") on the
  exterior of the Building, or elsewhere in the Project or on the Premises,
  without the prior written consent of Landlord as to the color, size, style,
  character, content, and location of each such sign.  Upon termination of this
  Lease, Tenant shall remove any sign which it has placed in the Project or on
  the Premises or the Building, and shall repair any damage caused by the
  installation or removal of such sign.

       20.  ENTRY BY LANDLORD.  Landlord and its agents shall be entitled to
  enter into and upon the Premises at all reasonable times, upon reasonable
  notice (except in the case of an emergency, in which event no notice shall be
  required), for the following purposes: (i) to perform Landlord's maintenance
  and repair responsibilities; (ii) to post notices of non-responsibility for
  alterations, additions, or repairs; or (iii) to place upon the Premises any
  ordinary "for sale" signs and to show the Premises to prospective purchasers
  or lenders; and, during the ninety (90) day period prior to the expiration of
  this Lease, or upon any Event of Default, to place upon the Premises any
  usual or ordinary "for lease" signs and exhibit the Premises to prospective
  tenants at reasonable hours.

       Landlord's rights of entry as set forth in this Paragraph 20 shall be
  subject to the reasonable security regulations of Tenant, and to the
  requirement that Landlord use reasonable efforts to minimize interference
  with Tenant's business activities on the Premises.

       21.  Subordination and Attornment.
            ----------------------------
            Notwithstanding anything contained in this Lease, and except with
  respect to any existing deeds of trust or other liens encumbering the Project
  or any portion thereof as of the Commencement Date (which the parties
  acknowledge are prior to this Lease, subject to such rights as Tenant may
  receive in the event a non-disturbance agreement is obtained from the
  beneficiary of such deed of trust or other lienholder

                                      32
<PAGE>   39

  concurrently with the execution of this Lease), this Lease shall not be
  subject to or subordinate to any ground or underlying lease or to any lien,
  mortgage, deed of trust, or security interest now or hereafter affecting the
  Premises, nor shall Tenant be required to execute any documents subordinating
  this Lease, unless the ground lessor, lender, or other holder of the interest
  to which this Lease shall be subordinated agrees to execute a recognition and
  non-disturbance agreement in substantially the form set forth on EXHIBIT "E".

       22.  ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATES AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.  Tenant shall
  within seven (7) days following request by Landlord:  (a) execute and deliver
  to Landlord any documents, including estoppel certificates, in the form
  presented to Tenant by Landlord (1) certifying that this Lease has not been
  modified and is in full force and effect or, if modified, stating the nature
  of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in
  full force and effect, (2) stating the date to which the rent and other
  charges are paid in advance, if at all, (3) acknowledging that there are not,
  to Tenant's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Landlord
  hereunder, or if there are uncured defaults on the part of Landlord, stating
  the nature of such uncured defaults, and (4) evidencing the status of this
  Lease as may be required either by a lender making a loan to Landlord to be
  secured by a deed of trust or mortgage encumbering the premises or a
  purchaser of the premises from Landlord; and (b) deliver to Landlord the best
  available current (and public, if the stock of Tenant is publicly traded over
  a United States nationally recognized stock exchange) financial statements of
  Tenant with an opinion of a certified public accountant, if available,
  including a balance sheet and profit and loss statement for the then current
  fiscal year, and the two (2) immediately prior fiscal years (if available),
  all prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
  consistently applied.  Landlord shall only be entitled to request such
  financial statements in connection with an intended disposition or
  refinancing of the Building.

  Landlord shall within seven (7) days following request by Tenant, provided
  such request is made only in connection with a proposed assignment or
  sublease of Tenant's interest in this Lease pursuant to Paragraph 17 above:
  (a) execute and deliver to Tenant an estoppel certificate in the form
  presented to Landlord by Tenant (1) certifying that this Lease has not been
  modified and is in full force and effect or, if modified, stating the nature
  of such modification and certifying that this Lease, as so modified, is in
  full force and effect, (2) stating the date to which the rent and other
  charges are paid in advance, if at all, and (3) acknowledging that there are
  not, to Landlord's knowledge, any uncured defaults on the part of Tenant
  hereunder, or if there are uncured defaults on the part of Tenant, stating
  the nature of such uncured defaults.

                                      33
<PAGE>   40

       23.  NOTICES.  Any notice, approval, request, demand, or consent
  (collectively "notice") required or desired to be given under this Lease
  shall be in writing and shall be personally served or delivered by commercial
  courier (with signed receipt) or United States mail, registered or certified,
  postage prepaid, and addressed to the party to be served at the last address
  given by that party to the other party under the provisions of this
  paragraph.  At the date of execution of this Lease, the addresses of Landlord
  and Tenant are as set forth above in the preamble to this Lease.  Either
  party may change its address by notice to the other party.  Any notice
  delivered by United States mail pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to
  have been delivered five (5) days after the posted date of mailing.

       24.  WAIVER.  The waiver by either party of any breach of any term,
  covenant, or condition herein contained shall not be deemed to be a waiver of
  such term, covenant or condition or any subsequent breach of the same or any
  other term, covenant or condition herein contained.  The subsequent
  acceptance of rent hereunder by Landlord shall not be deemed to be a waiver
  of any preceding breach by Tenant of any term, covenant or condition of this
  Lease, other than the failure of Tenant to pay the particular rental so
  accepted, regardless of Landlord's knowledge of such preceding breach at the
  time of acceptance of such rent.  No term, covenant or condition shall be
  deemed to have been waived by either party unless such waiver is in writing
  and signed by the party making such waiver.

       25.  ATTORNEY'S FEES.  If any action proceeding at law or in equity, or
  an arbitration proceeding (collectively an "action"), shall be brought to
  recover any rent under this Lease, or for or on account of any breach of or
  to enforce or interpret any of the terms, covenants, or conditions of this
  Lease, or for the recovery of possession of the Premises, the prevailing
  party shall be entitled to recover from the other party as a part of such
  action, or in a separate action brought for that purpose, its reasonable
  attorney's fees and costs and expenses (including expert witness fees)
  incurred in connection with the prosecution or defense of such action.
  "Prevailing party" within the meaning of this paragraph shall include,
  without limitation, a party who brings an action against the other after the
  other is in breach or default, if such action is dismissed upon the other's
  payment of the sums allegedly due or upon the other's performance of the
  covenants allegedly breached, or if the party commencing such action or
  proceeding obtains substantially the relief sought by it in such action,
  whether or not such action proceeds to a final judgment or determination.

       26.  SURRENDER.  Tenant shall, upon expiration or sooner termination of
  this Lease, surrender the Premises to Landlord with all Additional
  Improvements removed and all damage occasioned by such removal repaired, and
  otherwise in good and clean

                                      34
<PAGE>   41

  broom swept condition (reasonable wear and tear and damage due to causes
  beyond the reasonable control of Tenant excepted) with the HVAC equipment
  serving the Premises in operating order and in good repair.  Tenant, on or
  before the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease, shall remove all
  of its personal property and trade fixtures from the Premises. If the
  Premises are not so surrendered at the expiration or sooner termination of
  this Lease, Tenant shall indemnify Landlord against loss or liability
  resulting from delay by Tenant in so surrendering the Premises, including
  without limitation, any claims made by any succeeding tenant founded on such
  delay, and losses to Landlord due to lost opportunities to lease to
  succeeding tenants.

       27.  HOLDING OVER.  This Lease shall terminate without further notice at
  the expiration of the Lease term.  Any holding over by Tenant after
  expiration shall not constitute a renewal or extension of the Lease term or
  give Tenant any rights in or to the Premises unless otherwise expressly
  provided in this Lease.  Any holding over after expiration of the Lease term
  with the express written consent of Landlord shall be construed to be a
  tenancy from month to month, at one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the
  monthly Base Rent for the last month of the Lease term, and shall otherwise
  be on the terms and conditions herein specified insofar as applicable, unless
  otherwise mutually agreed in writing by the parties.

       28.  TRANSFER OF PREMISES BY LANDLORD.  The term "Landlord" as used in
  this Lease, so far as the covenants or obligations on the part of Landlord
  are concerned, shall be limited to mean and include only the owner at the
  time in question of the fee title to the Premises.  In the event of any
  transfer of such fee title, the Landlord herein named (and in case of any
  subsequent transfer or conveyance, the then grantor) shall after the date of
  such transfer or conveyance be automatically freed and relieved of all
  liability with respect to performance of any covenants or obligations on the
  part of Landlord contained in this Lease thereafter to be performed;
  provided, that any funds in the hands of Landlord or the then grantor at the
  time of such transfer in which Tenant has an interest, shall be turned over
  to the grantee.  The covenants and obligations contained in this Lease on the
  part of Landlord shall, subject to the foregoing, be binding upon each
  Landlord hereunder only during his or its respective period of ownership.

       29.  Option(s) to Extend Term.
            ------------------------
            29.1 EXERCISE OF OPTION.  Subject to the provisions of this
  Paragraph 29, Tenant shall have the right to extend the term of this Lease
  for three (3) additional periods of five (5) years each, unless the term is
  sooner terminated as provided in this Lease.  Unless otherwise expressly
  agreed in writing by the parties hereto, the term of

                                      35
<PAGE>   42

  this Lease shall in no event extend beyond March 31, 2015.  Tenant shall
  exercise each of such rights, if at all, only by giving Landlord written
  notice of exercise of such right on or before nine (9) months prior to the
  then scheduled expiration date of the Lease term, and only if Tenant is not
  in default under this Lease when Tenant exercises such right (provided,
  Tenant has received notice of such default and has not cured said default
  within the time permitted for such cure).  If Tenant fails to exercise any
  such rights to extend in accordance with this Paragraph 29, such right shall
  terminate.  The second right to extend may be exercised only if the first
  right to extend has previously been properly exercised, and the third right
  to extend may be exercised only if the second right to extend has previously
  been properly exercised.  If Tenant exercises any such rights in accordance
  with this Paragraph 29, the term of this Lease shall be extended for one
  period of five (5) years subject to the agreements, covenants, conditions,
  and provisions set forth in this Lease, except for the amount of Base Rent
  payable by Tenant, which shall be determined as set forth in Paragraph 29.2.

            29.2 RENT DURING EXTENDED TERM.  The monthly Base Rent during each
  such extended term of this Lease shall initially be equal to the fair market
  rent of the Premises as of the commencement date of such extended term.  Such
  fair market rent shall take into account the rent adjustment mechanism to be
  employed during such extended term.

                 The parties shall have thirty (30) days after Landlord
  receives notice of Tenant's exercise of its right to extend the term in which
  to agree on minimum monthly Base Rent during the extended term.  If the
  parties agree on the minimum monthly Base Rent for the extended term during
  such thirty (30) day period, they shall immediately execute an amendment to
  this Lease stating the minimum monthly Base Rent for such extended term.

                 If the parties are unable to agree on the minimum monthly Base
  Rent for the extended term within such thirty (30) day period, then within
  said thirty (30) days each party, at its cost and by giving notice to the
  other party, shall appoint an appraiser with at least five (5) years' full
  time commercial appraisal or brokerage experience in the Sunnyvale area to
  appraise and set the minimum monthly Base Rent for the extended term.  Said
  appraisers shall be instructed to determine the fair market rent for the
  Premises within thirty (30) days after their appointment, and to base their
  determination on the rent which will be applicable as of the commencement of
  the applicable extended term for comparable space in comparable buildings in
  comparable geographic areas leased on terms comparable to this Lease, taking
  into account the rent adjustment mechanism to be employed during such
  extended term.  Such rent determination shall not take into account
  improvements to

                                      36
<PAGE>   43
  the Premises made by Tenant or on Tenant's behalf at Tenant's sole
  expense, or any Additional Improvements.  If the higher appraisal of rent is
  not more than one hundred five percent (105%) of the lower appraisal of rent,
  the average of their appraised values shall be adopted by the parties.  If
  the higher appraisal is greater than one hundred five percent (105%) of the
  lower, then the two appraisers shall within five (5) days of the initial
  appraisal determinations appoint a third appraiser who shall make his
  determination within thirty (30) days of his appointment, and the two closest
  in dollar terms of the three offered rent determinations shall be averaged
  and adopted by the parties as the monthly Base Rent during the upcoming
  extended term. In no event shall the Base Rent determined by the appraisers
  be less than the then existing monthly Base Rent.  In the event the Base Rent
  so determined is higher than Tenant's highest previously negotiated offer
  Tenant may elect, by written notice to Landlord within three (3) days after
  receipt of the appraisers' determination, to terminate this Lease effective
  as of the date this Lease would have expired but for Tenant's earlier
  exercise of said option to extend the term, in which event Tenant's earlier
  exercise of said option shall be deemed rescinded.  Tenant shall pay all
  costs of the appraisers in the event Tenant so elects to rescind its exercise
  and terminates this Lease.

            29.3 RENTAL ADJUSTMENTS DURING EXTENDED TERM.  The Base Rent during
  the first, or if it is the case, the second or third extended term,
  determined pursuant to Paragraph 29.2 of this Lease shall be adjusted
  annually throughout such term to reflect any increase in the cost of living
  during the extended term in the manner specified in Paragraph 3.2 with
  respect to the initial term.  For the purposes of this paragraph, all other
  definitions set forth in Paragraph 3.2 of this Lease shall apply, except that
  the term "base" shall mean the last published Index in effect on the first
  day of the extended term in question.

       30.  PARKING.  Tenant shall have the nonexclusive use of Tenant's Share
  of the parking spaces in the Outside Areas as designated from time to time by
  Landlord.  Tenant shall not at any time park or permit the parking of
  Tenant's trucks or other vehicles, or trucks or other vehicles of others,
  adjacent or loading areas so as to interfere in any way with the use of such
  areas, nor shall Tenant at any time park or permit the parking of Tenant's
  vehicles or trucks, or the vehicles or trucks of Tenant's suppliers or
  others, in any portion of the Outside Areas not designated by Landlord for
  such use by Tenant.  Tenant shall not park or permit to be parked any
  inoperative vehicles or equipment on any portion of the Outside Areas.

       31.  REASONABLE CONSENT.  Whenever any party's approval or consent is
  required by this Lease, such consent or approval shall not be unreasonably
  withheld or delayed.

                                      37
<PAGE>   44

       32.  Cure Period.
            -----------
            32.1 CURE BY LANDLORD.  Landlord shall not be deemed to be in
  default in the performance of any obligation required to be performed by it
  hereunder unless and until it has failed to perform such obligation within
  the period of time specifically provided herein, or if no period of time has
  been provided, then within thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice
  by Tenant to Landlord specifying wherein Landlord has failed to perform such
  obligation; provided, however, that if the nature of Landlord's obligation is
  such that more than thirty (30) days are reasonably required for its
  performance, then Landlord shall not be deemed to be in default if it shall
  commence such performance within such thirty (30) day period and thereafter
  diligently prosecute the same to completion.  It is understood that, for
  purposes of Paragraphs 9.1, 13 and 10.1, the term "omissions", as used
  therein, shall mean only omissions by Landlord which if not cured with the
  time period permitted in this Paragraph 32 would result in a default of
  Landlord hereunder.

            32.2 CURE BY TENANT.  In the event Landlord is deemed in default
  with respect to its obligation to repair and maintain the roof of the
  Building as provided elsewhere in this Lease, Tenant shall be entitled, after
  written notice to such effect to Landlord, to make such repairs and shall
  have the right to demand reimbursement by Landlord of the cost thereof, with
  interest thereon at the rate of ten percent (10%) or the highest rate allowed
  by law, whichever is less, from the date of the expenditure until repaid.  In
  addition, in the event a condition exists with respect to any portion of the
  Premises which Landlord is required to repair under the Lease, and such
  condition is the direct and immediate cause of an emergency situation which
  presents a clear and present threat to the physical safety of persons on or
  about the Premises or of property of Tenant or its agents, employees, or
  contractors located on or about the Premises, then subject to the following,
  Tenant shall be entitled to make such repairs as are reasonably necessary to
  reduce such threat to a reasonably acceptable level.  As soon as Tenant
  becomes aware of any such condition, it shall make every reasonable effort to
  contact Landlord by telephone or in person and inform Landlord of the
  condition; if upon so informing Landlord of the condition, Landlord elects to
  correct the condition as soon as Tenant would otherwise be able to correct
  the condition, then Tenant shall have no right to correct the condition and
  Landlord shall correct the same.  If Tenant is unable to contact Landlord
  after exhausting reasonable efforts to do so, or does in fact contact
  Landlord but Landlord does not elect to correct the condition as quickly as
  Tenant is able to correct the condition, then Tenant shall be entitled to
  make such repairs and shall have the right to demand reimbursement by
  Landlord of the cost thereof, with interest thereon at the rate of ten
  percent (10%) or 

                                      38
<PAGE>   45

  the highest rate allowed by law, whichever is less, from the date of the
  expenditure until repaid.

       33.  MORTGAGEE PROTECTION.  In the event of any default on the part of
  Landlord, Tenant will give notice by registered or certified mail to any
  beneficiary of a deed or trust or mortgagee of a mortgage, encumbering the
  Premises whose address shall have been furnished to Tenant, and before
  exercising any remedy of Tenant to terminate this Lease, shall allow such
  beneficiary or mortgagee a reasonable opportunity to cure the default,
  including time to obtain possession of the Premises by power or sale or
  judicial foreclosure, if such should prove necessary to effect a cure.
                                   
       34.  General Provisions.
            ------------------
            34.1 ENTIRE AGREEMENT.  This instrument including the Exhibits
  attached hereto contains all of the agreements and conditions made between
  the parties hereto and may not be modified orally or in any manner other than
  by an agreement in writing signed by all of the parties hereto or their
  respective successors in interest.  Any executed copy of this Lease shall be
  deemed an original for all purposes.

            34.2 TIME.  Time is of the essence with respect to the performance
  of each and every provision of this Lease in which time of performance is a
  factor.  All references to days contained in this Lease shall be deemed to
  mean calendar days, unless otherwise specifically stated.

            34.3 CAPTIONS.  The captions and headings of the numbered
  paragraphs of this Lease are inserted solely for the convenience of the
  parties hereto, and are not a part of this Lease and shall have no effect
  upon the construction or interpretation of any part hereof.

            34.4 CALIFORNIA LAW.  This Lease shall be construed and interpreted
  in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  The language in all
  parts of this Lease shall in all cases be construed as a whole according to
  its fair meaning and not strictly for or against either Landlord or Tenant,
  and without regard to which party prepared this Lease.

            34.5 PARTIAL INVALIDITY.  If any provision of this Lease is held by
  a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the
  remainder of the provisions hereof shall nonetheless continue in full force
  and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired, or invalidated thereby.
                                      
                                      39
<PAGE>   46


            34.6  NO WARRANTIES.  Any agreements, warranties or representations
  not expressly contained herein shall not bind either Landlord or Tenant, and
  Landlord and Tenant expressly waive all claims for damages by reason of any
  statement, representation, warranty, promise or agreement, if any, not
  expressly contained in this Lease.

            34.7  SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS.  The covenants and conditions herein
  contained, subject to the provisions as to assignment, shall inure to the
  benefit of and bind the heirs, executors, administrators, assigns, and any
  other person or entity succeeding lawfully, and pursuant to the provisions of
  this Lease, to the rights or obligations of the respective parties hereto.
                                       
            34.8  RULES AND REGULATIONS.  Landlord may from time to time
  promulgate reasonable rules and regulations for the use, safety, care and
  cleanliness of the Premises and the Project.  Such rules and regulations
  shall be binding upon Tenant upon delivery of a copy thereof to Tenant, and
  Tenant shall abide by all such rules and regulations.  If there is a conflict
  between such rules and regulations and any of the provisions of this Lease,
  the provisions of this Lease shall prevail.

            34.9  AUTHORITY.  The individuals signing this Lease hereby
  represent and warrant that they have all necessary power and authority to
  execute and deliver this Lease on behalf of Landlord and Tenant,
  respectively.

            34.10 MEMORANDUM OF LEASE.  This Lease shall not be recorded.
  Concurrently with execution of this Lease, the parties shall execute and
  acknowledge a short form memorandum of this Lease in the form attached hereto
  as EXHIBIT "F".  Simultaneously with execution of such memorandum, Tenant
  shall execute and deliver to Landlord for recordation upon the expiration or
  sooner termination of this Lease, a quitclaim deed to the Premises, in
  recordable form, designating Landlord as transferee.  Any recordation by
  Landlord of such quitclaim deed prior to expiration or sooner termination of
  this Lease shall be deemed a default by Landlord hereunder.  In the event
  Landlord later transfers its interest in the Premises prior to expiration or
  sooner termination of this Lease, such quitclaim deed shall be relinquished
  to Tenant and Tenant shall simultaneously execute and deliver to Landlord a
  new quitclaim deed designating Landlord's successor in interest as the
  transferee, which quitclaim deed shall again only be recorded upon expiration
  or sooner termination of this Lease.

            34.11 REASONABLE EXPENDITURES.  An expenditure by a party, for
  which such party shall demand reimbursement from the other party, shall be
  limited to the fair market value of the goods and services involved, shall be
  reasonably incurred, and

                            40
<PAGE>   47
  shall be substantiated by documentary evidence available for inspection and
  review by the other party or its representative during normal business hours.

            34.12 AMENDMENTS TO ACCOMMODATE LENDERS.  Tenant agrees to
  execute any amendments required by a lender to enable Landlord to obtain
  replacement permanent financing so long as Tenant's rights and obligations
  hereunder are not materially adversely affected and provided such amendments
  are of the type normally required by such lender for similar loans.  Tenant
  shall not have any obligations under any such agreements unless and until
  Tenant signs the same.

            34.13 MERGER.  The voluntary or other surrender of this Lease,
  or a mutual cancellation thereof, shall not work an automatic merger, but
  shall, at the sole option of Landlord, either terminate all or any existing
  subleases or subtenancies, or operate as an assignment to Landlord of any or
  all of such subleases or subtenancies.

            34.14 FORCE MAJEURE.  Any prevention of or delay in the
  performance by a party hereto of its obligations under this Lease caused by
  inclement weather, labor disputes (including strikes and lockouts), inability
  to obtain materials or reasonable substitutes therefor, governmental
  restrictions, regulations, controls, action or inaction, civil commotion,
  fire or other causes beyond the reasonable control of the party obligated to
  perform (except financial inability), shall excuse the performance by such
  party of its obligations hereunder (except the obligation of Tenant to pay
  rent and other sums hereunder) for a period of one day for each such day of
  delay.

            34.15 EXHIBITS. The following exhibits are hereby made a part
  of this Lease.


       Exhibit "A" -- Premises
       Exhibit "B" -- Property Description
       Exhibit "C" -- Plans and Specifications for Tenant Improvements
       Exhibit "D" -- Plans and Specifications for Additional Improvements
       Exhibit "E" -- Nondisturbance Agreement
       Exhibit "F" -- Memorandum of Lease

                                      41
                                      
<PAGE>   48

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Lease on the
  dates set forth below.


            LANDLORD:                             TENANT:

  FERRARI BROTHERS,                       ANALOG DEVICES, INC., 
  a California general partnership        a Massachusetts corporation


  By: /s/ illegible                       By: /s/ illegible
      --------------------------              -----------------------

     Its General Partners                 Its Vice Pres., Finance
         -----------------------              -----------------------

  Dated:  June 16-1996                    Dated:  June 7, 1995
         -----------------------                 --------------------




                                      42
<PAGE>   49
                                  EXHIBIT "A"

                           (SCHEMATIC OF FLOOR PLAN)

<PAGE>   50
Legal Description

All that certain real property situate in the city of Sunnyvale, County of
Santa Clara, State of California, described as follows:

That portion of Lots 24 and 25, W.E. Crossman's Subdivision No. 3, as shown on
a Map recorded in Book K of Maps, page 95, Records of Santa Clara County,
California, being more particularly described as follows:

Beginning at a point on the Southeasterly line of Lot 25, as said Lot is shown
on the Map of said Tract, said point being the Southeasterly corner of that
certain tract of land described in the Deed to the city and County of San
Francisco, recorded in Book 2155, Page 377 of Official Records;

thence along the Southeasterly line of said Lot 25, and the Southeasterly line
of Lot 24, as shown upon said Map, S 15 degrees 37 minutes 51 seconds W. 367.21
feet, more or less to the Northeasterly corner of that certain tract of land 
conveyed to the State of California by Deed recorded in Book 4253, Page 92 of 
Official Records:

thence along the line of the land so conveyed to the State of California N.
70 degrees 09 minutes 03 seconds W. 263.24 feet;

thence along a tangent curve t the right with a radius of 358.00 feet, through
an angle of 85 degrees 36 minutes 48 seconds an arc length of 534.94 feet to 
the property line common to the lands now or formerly of John Kulm, et ux, and 
of City and County of San Francisco, a municipal corporation; said point being 
distant thereon S. 73 degrees 35 minutes 22 seconds E. 133.01 feet from the 
center line of Fairoaks Avenue, as said Avenue is shown upon said Map herein 
referred to:

thence Southeasterly along the Southwesterly line of the land of the City and
County of San Francisco, 593.47 feet, more or less to the point of beginning.


                                 Exhibit "B"
<PAGE>   51
                           PERFORMANCE SEMICONDUCTOR

                              TENANT IMPROVEMENTS
                     610 E. Weddell Dr. by 1995 definition

Description:

Office Area Construction (22)

Lobby

Conference Rooms (2)

Restroom/Shower Facility

Support Area (maint.)

Light Manufacturing (Rooms 3) Area

Exterior Storage Rooms (2)

Cafeteria (1242)

Corridor System (1hr)

HVAC Units (6) #1, #2, #3, #4, #8

Ceiling Tile System

Fire Sprinklers Above/Below Ceiling

Floor System Carpet/Tile

Electrical Sub-Panels/Fit-Up

Lighting

Painting

Exhaust Fans

Hot Water Heater



                                  Exhibit "C"                    Plan A 610-TI's
<PAGE>   52
                           PERFORMANCE SEMICONDUCTOR

                  WAFER MANUFACTURING ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
                     610 E. Weddell Dr. by 1995 definition

Description:

Clean Room Tunnels 1 (15), 2 (11), 3 (11), 4 (10), 5 (12)

Air Handlers/Duct furnace/Cooling coils: #1, #2, #3, #4

Air Showers (3)

Fir Sprinklers Manufacturing and Exhaust Ducting

Exhaust Scrubber #1 and #2/Duct Work

Alarm/Detection System

Emergency Generator System

Vacuum System A/B

Floor System (Mipolam)

Electrical Fit-Up Manufacturing Support Equipment

Lighting

Process Piping Gas (ss) (cu)

Process Piping D.I. (PVDF), AWN Drain Lines (PVC, CPVC)

Process Piping Trench System
External Support Equipment and Tank Farm

Process Chilled Water System, Mixing Manifold, Piping Extension, Electrical
Panel

Acid and HF Waste Treatment Equipment/System/Vault

Tunnel #3 Wall System, Temperature/Humidity Control



                               Exhibit "D"              FAC-AI
<PAGE>   53
RECORDING REQUESTED BY, AND
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

Lindell Van Dyke, Esq.
1265 Montecito Avenue
Mountain View, CA  94043

                           NON-DISTURBANCE AGREEMENT
                   610 Weddell Drive -- Fabrication Facility

THIS NON-DISTURBANCE AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of
the 16th day of June, 1995, by and among Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts
corporation ("Tenant"), FERRARI BROTHERS, a California general partnership
("Landlord"), and COAST FEDERAL BANK, formerly known as Coast Savings and Loan
Association, ("Lender"), based on the follows:

A.  Landlord and Tenant have executed a lease)the "Lease") dated as of June
16, 1995 covering certain premises therein described (the "Premises")
consisting of approximately 27,379 square feet of floor space in an
approximately 63,500 square foot building located on that certain parcel of
real estate commonly known as 610,620, and 630 Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale,
California.  A legal description of said parcel is attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference as Exhibit "A" (said parcel f real estate
and the Premises are sometimes collectively referred to herein as the
"Property");

B.  Landlord has executed a First Deed of Trust (the "Deed of Trust") recorded
on May 22, 1985 as Instrument No. 8417024 Book J353, Page 195 et seq. of the
Official Records of Santa Clara County, California in favor of Lender, payable
upon the terms and conditions described therein;

C.  The parties desire to acknowledge that the loan secured by the Deed of
Trust shall unconditionally be and remain at all times a lien or charge upon
the Property, prior and superior to the Lease and to the leasehold estate
created thereby; and

D.  The parties hereto desire to assure Tenant's possession and control of the
Property under this Lease upon the terms and conditions therein contained.

NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises
herein and other god and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of
which is hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, the parties agree as
follows:

                                   AGREEMENT

1.  The Lease is and shall be subject and subordinate to the Deed of Trust, and
to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions
thereof, and to all future advances made thereunder.

Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                       1
                                  EXHIBIT "E"
<PAGE>   54
2.  Should Lender become the owner of the Property, or should the Property be
sold by reason of foreclosure, or other proceedings brought to enforce the Deed
of Trust which encumbers the Property, or should the Property be transferred by
deed in lieu of foreclosure, or should any portion of the Property be sold
under a trustee's sale, the Lease shall continue in full force and effect as a
direct lease between the then owner of the Property covered by the Deed of
Trust and Tenant, upon, and subject to, all of the terms, covenants and 
conditions of the Lease for the balance of the term thereof remaining, 
including any extension therein provided.  Tenant does hereby agree to attorn
to Lender or to any such owner as its landlord, and Lender hereby agrees that
it will accept such attornment.

3.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Lender shall not be
(a) liable for any previously accrued default of any landlord under the Lease
(including Landlord) as of the date Lender forecloses or otherwise takes title
to the Property; (b) subject to any offsets or defenses which have accrued
prior to the date of foreclosure, unless Tenant shall have delivered to lender
written notice of the default which gave rise to such offset or defense and
permitted Lender the same right to cure such default as is permitted Landlord
under the Lease; (c) bound by any rent or other sums that Tenant may have paid
under the Lease more than one month in advance; (d) bound by any amendment or
modification of the Lease hereafter made without Lender's prior written
consent; (e) responsible for the return of any security deposit delivered to
Landlord under the Lease and not subsequently received by Lender.

4.  If Lender sends written notice to Tenant to direct its rent payments under
the Lease to Lender instead of Landlord, then Tenant agrees to follow the
instructions set forth in such written instructions and deliver rent payments
to Lender; however, Landlord and Lender agree that Tenant shall be credited
under the Lease for any rent payments sent to lender pursuant to such written
notice.

5.  All notices which may or are required to be sent under this Agreement shall
be in writing and shall be sent by first class certified U.S. mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, and sent to the party at the address
appearing below its signature hereof or such other address as any party shall
hereafter inform the other party by written notice given as set forth above.
All notices delivered as set forth above shall be deemed effective five (5)
days after the posted date of deposit in the U.S. mail.

6.  The Deed of Trust shall not cover or encumber and shall not be construed as
subjecting in any manner to the lien thereof any of Tenant's trade fixtures,
furniture, equipment or other personal property at any time placed or installed
in the Premises, or the Additional Improvements (as defined in the Lease).

7.  Landlord and Tenant each acknowledges that the other is not in default or
breach of any of its obligations under the Lease as of the date hereof.

Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                        2
<PAGE>   55
8.  this Non-Disturbance Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding
upon the parties hereto, their successors in interest, heirs and assigns and
any subsequent owner of the Property secured by the Deed of Trust.

9.  Should any action or proceeding be commenced to enforce any of the
provisions of this Non-Disturbance Agreement or in connection with its meaning,
the prevailing party in such action shall be awarded, in addition to any other
relief it may obtain, its reasonable costs and expenses and reasonable
attorneys' fees.

   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Non-Disturbance
Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.

LENDER:

COAST FEDERAL BANK,
a
 ----------------------

By:
   ------------------------
Name:
     ----------------------
Title:
      ---------------------


- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------
(address)

TENANT:

Analog Devices Inc.,
a Massachusetts corporations

By:
   ------------------------
Its:
    -----------------------


- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------

- ---------------------------
(address)

Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                          3
<PAGE>   56
LANDLORD:

FERRARI BROTHERS,
a California general partnership


By:
   ------------------------------
    Ray Ferrari, general partner

1265 Montecito Ave., Suite 200
Mountain View, CA  94043
Attn: Ray Ferrari





Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                        4
<PAGE>   57
                          (Acknowledgement of Lender)

STATE OF CALIFORNIA      )
                                  )SS.
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES    )

   On June 16, 1995 before me, Lynda C. Thomas, a Notary Public in and for said
County and State, personally appeared Patrick Senske, personally known to me to
be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he executed same in his authorized capacity, or the
entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature:
          -----------------------------




Analog Devices Nondisturbance Agreement
June 16, 1995

                                         5
<PAGE>   58
RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND
WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO:

Lindell Van Dyke, Esq.
10600 N. DeAnza Blvd., Ste 100
Cupertino, CA 95014


                             MEMORANDUM OF LEASE

This Memorandum of Lease, dated June   , 1995 for reference purposes only, is
made and entered into between FERRARI BROTHERS, a California general
partnership (hereafter called "Landlord"), and Analog Devices, Inc., a
Massachusetts corporation (hereafter called ("Tenant").

Landlord hereby leases to Tenant certain premises consisting of approximately
twenty-seven thousand three hundred seventy-nine (27,379) square feet (the
"Premises") within that certain building (the "Building") located at 610
Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale, California.  A legal description of the parcel of
land on which the Building is situated is attached as Exhibit "A" hereto and
incorporated herein by reference.  Such lease is governed by the provisions of
that certain unrecorded lease between the parties hereto (the "Lease"), dated
June   , 1995, which provisions are incorporated herein by reference as though
written out at length herein.  Terms undefined herein shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Lease.

The term of the Lease shall be the five (5) year period commencing on June   ,
1995 and ending on March 31, 2000.  Tenant shall have three options to extend
the term for successive additional periods of five (5) years each on the terms
set forth in the Lease.

The purpose of this Memorandum of Lease is to give notice of the existence of
the Lease.  This Memorandum in no way modifies the Lease or any terms thereof.





                                  EXHIBIT "F"
                                     F-1
<PAGE>   59
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Memorandum of Lease
to be executed as of the day and year first above written.



TENANT:

Analog Devices Inc.,
a Massachusetts corporations

By:
   ------------------------
Name:
     ----------------------
Title:
      ---------------------

LANDLORD:

FERRARI BROTHERS,
a California general partnership


By:
   ------------------------
Name:
     ----------------------
Title:
      ---------------------





                                   Exhibit "F"
                                       F-2
<PAGE>   60
(Acknowledgement of Landlord)

STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS      )
                                  )SS.
COUNTY OF NORFOLK           )

   On June 7, 1995 before me, Janet A. Sweeney, a Notary Public in and for said
County and State, personally appeared Joseph E. McDonough, personally known to
me to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he executed same in his authorized capacity, or the
entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument.

WITNESS my hand and official seal.

Signature:
          -----------------------------





                                    Exhibit "F"
                                        F-3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.36
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT #1 TRUST AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   Exhibit 10-36
                                                                   -------------


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                                 TRUST AGREEMENT
                                       FOR
                           DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN


                                 Amendment No. 1
                                 ---------------

                                December 3, 1996


     WHEREAS, Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog") and Boatmens' Trust Company
("Trustee") entered into a Trust Agreement dated December 11, 1995 (the "Trust
Agreement") for the purpose, among others, to provide Analog with a source of
funds to assist it in the meeting of its liabilities under the Analog Devices,
Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan; and

     WHEREAS, Analog and the Trustee wish to amend the Trust Agreement pursuant
to the power reserved by them to do so in Section 12(a) of the Trust Agreement.

     NOW, THEREFORE, the Trust Agreement is hereby amended by replacing the
first sentence of Section 5(a) with the following sentence, effective as of
December 3, 1996:

          "The Trustee may invest in Common Stock issued by the Company."

     EXECUTED as of the 3rd day of December, 1996.


     ANALOG DEVICES, INC.                        BOATMENTS' TRUST COMPANY


     By: /s/ William A. Martin                   By:  /s/ Lisa Godiner
         ----------------------------               ---------------------------

     Title: Treasurer                            Title: Vice President
           --------------------------                  ------------------------ 


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11.1
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
Exhibit 11-1

Analog Devices, Inc.
Computation of Earnings Per Share (Unaudited)
(in thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Twelve Months Ended

                                                        November 2, 1996     October 28, 1995   October 29, 1994
                                                        ----------------     ----------------   ----------------
<S>                                                     <C>                  <C>                <C>    
PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE

Weighted average common and common 
          equivalent shares:

   Weighted average common shares outstanding .......        153,221             149,269             146,494
   Assumed exercise of common stock equivalents (1) .          8,512               9,446               8,045
   Assumed conversion of subordinated notes .........          9,556                  --                  --
                                                            --------            --------            --------
   Weighted average common and common                                                           
    equivalent shares ...............................        171,289             158,715             154,539
                                                            ========            ========            ========
                                                                                                
Net income ..........................................       $171,901            $119,270            $ 74,496
Interest related to convertible subordinated                                                    
   notes, net of tax ................................          4,990                  --                  --
                                                            --------            --------            --------
                                                                                                
Earnings available for common stock .................       $176,891            $119,270            $ 74,496
                                                            ========            ========            ========
                                                                                                
PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE ..........................       $   1.03            $    .75            $    .48
                                                            ========            ========            ========
                                                                                                
FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE                                                                
                                                                                                
Weighted average common and common equivalent shares:                                           
   Weighted average common shares outstanding .......        153,221             149,269             146,498
   Assumed exercise of common stock equivalents (1) .          8,726               9,692               8,403
   Assumed conversion of subordinated notes .........          9,556                  --                  --
                                                            --------            --------            --------
   Weighted average common and common                                                           
   equivalent shares ................................        171,503             158,961             154,901
                                                            ========            ========            ========
                                                                                                
Net income ..........................................       $171,901            $119,270            $ 74,496
Interest related to convertible subordinated                                                    
   notes, net of tax ................................          4,990                  --                  --
                                                            --------            --------            --------
                                                                                                
Earnings available for common stock .................       $176,891            $119,270            $ 74,496
                                                            ========            ========            ========

FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE ....................       $   1.03            $    .75            $    .48
                                                            ========            ========            ========
</TABLE>
                                                    
                                                       
(1)  Computed based on the treasury stock method.  


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>13
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
Exhibit 21

                                  SUBSIDIARIES


The following is a list of the Company's subsidiaries:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                           PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                            SECURITIES OWNED BY
                                                                      ORGANIZED              REGISTRANT AS OF
                                                                     UNDER LAW OF            NOVEMBER 2, 1996
                                                                     ------------            ----------------
   <S>                                                             <C>                       <C> 
   Analog Devices Limited                                          United Kingdom                   100%
   Analog Devices, GmbH                                            Germany                          100%
   Analog Devices, S.A.                                            France                           100%
   Analog Devices, K.K.                                            Japan                            100%
   Analog Devices APS                                              Denmark                          100%
   Analog Devices Nederland, B.V.                                  The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices International, Inc.                              Massachusetts                    100%
   Analog Devices Israel, Ltd.                                     Israel                           100%
   Analog Devices A.B.                                             Sweden                           100%
   Analog Devices SRL                                              Italy                            100%
   Analog Devices, HDLSGESMBH M.B.H.                               Austria                          100%
   Analog Devices Korea, Ltd.                                      Korea                            100%
   Analog Devices, B.V.                                            The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices Finance N.V.                                     Netherlands Antilles             100%
   Analog Devices Holdings, B.V.                                   The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices Research & Development Ltd.                      Ireland                          100%
   Analog Devices (Philippines), Inc.                              The Philippines                  100%
   Analog Devices Foreign Sales
     Corporation, B.V.                                             The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices Foundry Services, Inc.                           Delaware                         100%
   Analog Devices Asian Sales, Inc.                                Delaware                         100%
   Analog Devices Taiwan, Ltd.                                     Taiwan                           100%
   Analog Devices Ireland, Ltd.                                    Ireland                          100%
   Analog Devices Hong Kong, Ltd.                                  Hong Kong                        100%
   Analog Devices Pty, Ltd.                                        Australia                        100%
   Analog Devices India Private Limited                            India                            100%
   Analog Devices Gen. Trias, Inc.                                 Philippines                      100%
   Analog Devices International Financial Services Company         Ireland                          100%
   Analog Devices Foreign Sales Corporation                        Barbados                         100%
   Mosaic Microsystems Limited                                     United Kingdom                   100%
   Analog Development (Israel) 1996 Ltd.                           Israel                           100%
   Analog Devices (China) Co. Ltd.                                 China                            100%
   Analyzed Investments, Ltd.                                      Ireland                           54%
   Analog/NCT Supply Ltd.                                          Delaware                          50%
   Analog Devices Realty Holdings, Inc.                            Philippines                       40%
   WaferTech, LLC                                                  Delaware                          18%
   Analog Supplies Company                                         Japan                             15%
</TABLE>

The financial statements of all wholly owned subsidiaries are included in the
Consolidated Financial Statements listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements appearing elsewhere herein.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
Exhibit 23




               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

        
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 Nos. 2-63561, 2-69122, 2-77321, 2-90023, 2-95495, 33-2502, 33-4067, 
33-22604, 33-22605, 33-29484, 33-39851, 33-39852, 33-43128, 33-46520, 33-46521, 
33-60696, 33-60642, 33-61427, 33-64849, 333-04771, 333-04819, 333-04821 and 
333-08493) and the Registration Statements (Form S-3 Nos. 333-17651, 333-08505
and 333-08509) of Analog Devices, Inc. of our report dated December 3, 1996, 
with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Analog 
Devices, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended 
November 2, 1996.


                                             ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Boston, Massachusetts
January 24, 1997




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>15
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          NOV-02-1996
<PERIOD-START>                             OCT-28-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               NOV-02-1996
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                         210,109
<SECURITIES>                                    89,810
<RECEIVABLES>                                  249,221
<ALLOWANCES>                                     7,374
<INVENTORY>                                    218,877
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               820,250
<PP&E>                                       1,067,268
<DEPRECIATION>                                 483,946
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               1,515,685
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          270,236
<BONDS>                                        310,000
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        26,458
<OTHER-SE>                                     836,377
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 1,515,685
<SALES>                                      1,193,786
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             1,193,786
<CGS>                                          593,033
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  593,033
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               373,614
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              11,289
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                230,740
<INCOME-TAX>                                    58,839
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            171,901
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   171,901
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     1.03
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.03
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
