-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ksy6bVdHP3/H/QbBFg+P5/luWOcH1GTHdS9Pw/VTb/6rTWYAdGGzpy/7o5vuUnZc
 5Lm9sKA+NINKy/LIudr3Uw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001012870-98-002215.txt : 19980821
<SEC-HEADER>0001012870-98-002215.hdr.sgml : 19980821
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001012870-98-002215
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19980703
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980820
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000354952
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES [3572]
		IRS NUMBER:				942612933
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0628

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11403
		FILM NUMBER:		98695272

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		920 DISC DR
		CITY:			SCOTTS VALLEY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95066
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4084386550

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		920 DISC DRIVE
		CITY:			SCOTTS VALLEY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95066
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K405 FOR YEAR ENDED 07/03/1998
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 3, 1998
 
                                      OR
 
[_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM       TO
 
                          COMMISSION FILE NO. 0-10630
 
                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                               ----------------
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                       <C>
                DELAWARE                                    94-2612933
    (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                      (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
     INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                   IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)
 
             920 DISC DRIVE
       SCOTTS VALLEY, CALIFORNIA                              95066
(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                    (ZIP CODE)
</TABLE>
 
      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (831) 438-6550
 
                               ----------------
 
         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (B) OF THE ACT:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS                         ON WHICH REGISTERED
         -------------------                        ---------------------
<S>                                     <C>
COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.01 PER SHARE             NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
</TABLE>
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days: YES [X]  NO [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, based upon the closing price of Common Stock on July 3, 1998 as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was approximately $5.182 billion.
Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by each person
who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that
such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
 
  The number of outstanding shares of the registrant's Common Stock on July 3,
1998 was 244,757,152
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Parts of the following documents are incorporated by reference to Parts I,
II, III, IV of this form 10-K Report: (1) Proxy Statement for registrant's
1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement") and (2)
registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended July 3,
1998 (the "Annual Report to Stockholders").
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I
 
  The information contained in this report includes forward-looking
statements, based on current expectations, that involve risks and
uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those
expressed in the forward-looking statements. Various important factors known
to Seagate Technology, Inc. that could cause such material differences are
identified below in Part I, Item 1 of this report and in the "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition"
included in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is
incorporated by reference into Part II, Item 7 of this Report.
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
  Seagate operates in a single industry segment by designing, manufacturing
and marketing products for storage, retrieval and management of data on
computer and data communications systems. These products include disc drives
and disc drive components, tape drives and software.
 
  Seagate designs, manufactures and markets a broad line of rigid magnetic
disc drives for use in computer systems ranging from desktop personal
computers to workstations and supercomputers as well as in multimedia
applications such as digital video and video-on-demand. The Company's products
currently include rigid disc drive models with form factors from 3.5 to 5.25
inches and capacities from 1 gigabyte ("GB") to 47 GB. In January 1998, the
Company discontinued production of 2.5 inch disc drives for the mobile
computer market due to intense competition resulting in a substantial loss of
market share. However, the Company is continuing research and development in
this area and intends to reenter this market at a future date. The Company
sells its products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") for inclusion
in their computer systems or subsystems, and to distributors, resellers,
dealers, system integrators and retailers. The Company has pursued a strategy
of vertical integration and accordingly designs and manufactures rigid disc
drive components including recording heads, discs, disc substrates, motors and
custom integrated circuits. It also assembles certain of the key subassemblies
for use in its products including printed circuit board and head stack
assemblies. The Company's products are currently manufactured primarily in the
Far East with limited production in the United States.
 
  In addition to its core product line of rigid disc drives and related
components, the Company has broadened its strategy to more fully address the
markets for storage, retrieval and management of data. In line with this
broadened strategy, the Company has made the following investments:
 
  In January 1993, the Company began investing in SanDisk Corporation
("SanDisk"), a flash memory company.
 
  In July 1994, the Company began investing in Dragon Systems, Inc., a
developer of speech and language technology, including speech recognition
software.
 
  In December 1994, the Company acquired Applied Magnetics Corporation's tape
head subsidiary, a manufacturer of magnetic recording heads for tape drives.
 
  In February 1996, The Company added tape drives to its product line as a
result of its merger with Conner Peripherals, Inc. ("Conner").
 
  In June 1997, the Company began investing in Gadzoox Networks, Inc., a
manufacturer of Fibre Channel based storage network connectivity products.
 
  In August 1997, the Company acquired Quinta Corporation ("Quinta"), a
developer of optically assisted Winchester disc drives.
 
                                       1
<PAGE>
 
  The Company has also invested in, and currently intends to continue
investigating opportunities to invest in software activities. See "Seagate
Software, Inc."
 
  The Company anticipates that its broadened strategy may include additional
acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary
businesses, products and technologies to enable lower cost per megabyte,
faster time to market, increased capacity, and better performance
characteristics for its products. The Company's strategy includes acquiring
companies that possess technology and development personnel which provide
long-term growth potential to the Company's business. However, implementation
of this broadened strategy entails risks of entering markets in which the
Company may have limited or no experience. In addition, such broadened
strategy could result in the diversion of management's attention from the core
rigid disc drive business which could adversely impact the core business.
Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the
assimilation of the operations and products of the acquired businesses,
retention of management and the potential loss of key employees or customers
of the acquired businesses.
 
RIGID DISC DRIVE TECHNOLOGY
 
  Magnetic disc drives are used in computer systems to record, store and
retrieve digital information. Most computer applications require access to a
greater volume of data than can economically be stored in the random access
memory of the computer's central processing unit (commonly known as
"semiconductor" memory). This information can be stored on a variety of
storage devices, including rigid disc drives, both fixed and removable,
flexible disc drives, magnetic tape drives, optical disc drives and
semiconductor memory. Rigid disc drives provide access to large volumes of
information faster than optical disc drives, flexible disc drives or magnetic
tape drives and at substantially lower cost than high-speed semiconductor
memory.
 
  Although products vary, all rigid disc drives incorporate the same basic
technology. One or more rigid discs are attached to a spindle assembly that
rotates the discs at a high constant speed around a hub. The discs (also known
as media or disc media) are the components on which data is stored and from
which it is retrieved. Each disc typically consists of a substrate of finely
machined aluminum or glass with a magnetic layer of a "thin-film" metallic
material.
 
  Rigid disc drive performance is commonly measured by five key
characteristics: average seek time (commonly expressed in milliseconds), which
is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disc
surface; media data transfer rate (commonly expressed in megabits per second),
which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disc; storage
capacity (commonly expressed in megabytes or gigabytes), which is the amount
of data that can be stored on the disc; spindle rotation speed (commonly
expressed in revolutions per minute), which has an effect on speed of access
to data; and interface transfer rate (commonly expressed in megabytes per
second), which is the rate at which data moves between the disc drive and the
computer controller.
 
  Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly similar in concept to that of a
record player, fly extremely close to each disc surface and record data on and
retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating
discs.
 
  Upon instructions from the drive's electronic circuitry, a head positioning
mechanism (an "actuator") guides the heads to the selected track of a disc
where the data will be recorded or retrieved. The disc drive communicates with
the host computer through an internal controller. Disc drive manufacturers may
use one or more of several industry standard interfaces, such as SCSI (Small
Computer System Interface), ATA (AT Attachment), and FC-AL (Fibre Channel--
Arbitrated Loop).
 
  Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the
recording surface of a disc. It represents the number of bits of information
on a linear inch of the recording track (specified in bits per inch or bpi)
multiplied by the number of recording tracks on a radial inch of the disc.
Current areal densities are sufficient to meet the requirements of most
applications today. However, the long-term demand for increased drive
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
capacities is expected to increase at an accelerating rate since sound and
moving pictures require many times the storage capacity of simple text. The
Company has and continues to aggressively pursue a range of technologies to
increase areal densities across the entire range of its products not only to
increase drive capacities, but to allow the elimination of components at a
stated capacity as areal density increases, thus reducing costs. As a result,
Seagate drives today use advanced signal processing techniques such as PRML
(Partial Response Maximum Likelihood) read/write channels, advanced servo
systems, higher precision mechanics and advanced head technologies. To attain
greater areal densities, the Company currently incorporates magneto-resistive
("MR") heads into a substantial portion of its disc drives. MR heads have
discrete read and write structures which take advantage of special magnetic
properties in certain metals to achieve significantly higher storage
capacities. There can be no assurance that the Company's MR head development
effort will continue to be successful. See "Product Development."
 
MARKET OVERVIEW
 
  Rigid disc drives are used in a broad range of computer systems as well as
for multimedia applications such as digital video and video-on-demand. The
Company defines the major computer system markets to include mobile computers,
desktop personal computers, workstation systems and server/multi-user systems.
Users of computer systems are increasingly demanding additional data storage
capacity with higher performance in order to (i) use more sophisticated
applications software, including database management, CAD/CAM/CAE, desktop
publishing, video editing and enhanced graphics applications and (ii) operate
in multi-user, multitasking and multimedia environments. There is also an
emerging market for ultra-low cost personal computers. Additionally, there is
a sizable market for rigid disc drives in the existing installed base of
computer systems, some of which require additional storage capacity. These
requirements for storage upgrades can be served through authorized
distribution channels.
 
 Personal Computers--Desktop and Mobile
 
  Desktop and portable personal computers are used in a number of
environments, ranging from homes to businesses and multi-user networks.
Software applications are primarily word processing, spreadsheet, desktop
publishing, database management, multimedia, internet caching, digital photos,
games, audio/video applications and other related applications. The Company
believes the minimum storage requirements in the past year for entry-level
personal computers were generally 1 GB to 2.1 GB of formatted capacity with
seek times ranging from 12.5 milliseconds ("msec") down to 10.5 msec. The
entry level capacities continue to increase. In addition, users of personal
computers have become increasingly price sensitive. The Company's objective
for the personal computer market is to design drives for high-volume, low-cost
manufacturing.
 
  Seagate divides the desktop market into three segments: entry-level,
mainstream and performance. The Company designs and manufactures drives for
each of these segments--Medalist drives for the entry-level and mainstream
market segments and Medalist Pro for the performance segment.
 
  Smaller footprint systems, such as mobile, laptop, notebook and
ultraportable computers require rigid disc drives in form factors of less than
3.5 inches that emphasize durability and low power consumption in addition to
capacity and performance characteristics found in their desktop functional
equivalents. Personal digital assistants, hand-held and pen-based computers
may use 1.8 inch or 2.5 inch hard disc drives or flash memory such as a PCMCIA
card for additional memory. These mobile applications also emphasize low power
consumption as well as very high degrees of durability. The Company
discontinued production of disc drives in form factors of less than 3.5 inches
in January 1998. However, the Company is continuing research and development
in this area and intends to reenter this market at a future date.
 
 Workstation Systems
 
  Workstation systems include high performance microcomputers, technical
workstations, servers and minicomputers. Applications are characterized by
compute-intensive and data-intensive solutions, such as
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
CAD/CAM/CAE, network management, larger database management systems,
scientific applications and small to medium-sized business applications such
as materials requirement planning, payroll, general ledger systems and related
management reports. Workstation systems typically require rigid disc drive
storage capacities of 2 GB and greater per drive, average seek times of 8 msec
and rotation speeds of 7,200 rpm to 10,000 rpm. Due to the leading edge
characteristics required by end-users of workstation systems, manufacturers of
such systems emphasize performance as well as price as the key selling points.
 
 Server/Multi-user Systems
 
  Large systems include mainframes and supercomputers. Typical applications
are medium and large business management systems, transaction processing,
parallel processing and other applications requiring intensive data
manipulation. Also included in high-end applications are systems designed for
video-on-demand and near-line storage.
 
  Users of these systems generally require capacities of 4 GB and greater per
drive with average seek times of 8 msec and rotation speeds of 5,400 rpm to
10,000 rpm. End-users of large systems are less concerned than users of
smaller systems with the size, weight, power consumption and absolute cost of
the drive. As with workstation systems, disc drive products are typically
designed into these systems by the OEM with emphasis on performance,
reliability and capacity. In this market segment, data storage subsystems are
used containing large numbers of disc drives. Because data integrity is
paramount, high device reliability and maintainability are key features.
Mainframe, supercomputer and digital video systems also benefit from very high
data transfer rates (up to ten times that in small computer systems).
 
  Users of these systems may also utilize redundant arrays of inexpensive disc
drives ("RAID"). A RAID combines multiple small drives into an array of disc
drives which yield performance equal to or exceeding a single high performance
drive. The array of drives appears to the computer as a single storage drive.
 
PRODUCTS
 
 Rigid Disc Drives
 
  The Company produces a broad line of rigid disc drives in 3.5 and 5.25 inch
form factors and capacities from 1 GB to 47 GB. The Company provides more than
one product at some capacity points and differentiates products on a
price/performance and form factor basis. The Company believes that its broad
range of rigid disc drives is particularly appealing to customers, such as
large OEMs, which require a wide variety of drive capacities, performance
levels and interfaces. Producing for several market segments also broadens the
Company's customer base and reduces the Company's reliance on any one segment
of the computer market. The Company continues to devote its resources to
developing products with industry leading performance characteristics and to
being among the first to introduce such products to market. The Company
continuously seeks to enhance its market presence in emerging segments of the
rigid disc drive market by drawing on its established capabilities in high-
volume, low-cost production. The Company believes it offers the broadest range
of disc storage products available. See "Product Development".
 
 Mobile Computing
 
  In April 1997, the Company announced the 2.5 inch Marathon 2130sl and 1420sl
in the 12.7 mm high form factor with formatted capacities of 2.1 GB and 1.4
GB, respectively. These two models began volume production during the first
quarter of fiscal 1998. In January 1998, the Company discontinued production
of 2.5 inch disc drives for the mobile computer market due to intense
competition resulting in a substantial loss of market share. The design center
for mobile drives in San Jose, California was closed and relocated to
Longmont, Colorado. The Company is continuing research and development for
mobile products and intends to reenter this market at a future date.
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
Desktop Computing
 
  In fiscal 1998, the Company continued to introduce new 3.5 inch disc drive
products for the desktop computing market.
  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997, the Company began production of
the Medalist 4340 (ST34340A), a value-class 4.3 GB hard drive with a 4,500 rpm
spindle rotation speed, a 12 msec seek time and multimedia-ready performance,
meaning the drive can run full-screen, full-motion video. Depopulated versions
of the Medalist 4340 also began production, including the Medalist 2120
(ST32120A), an entry level 2.1 GB hard drive, and the Medalist 1010
(ST31010A), an entry level, single platter 1 GB hard drive. The Medalist 1010
is targeted to entry level systems and emerging markets such as the ultra-low
cost personal computer market. Volume shipments of the Medalist 4340, 2120 and
1010 began in the first quarter of fiscal 1998.
  The Medalist 4342 family started volume production in the first quarter of
fiscal 1998. This product added the Ultra ATA interface to the Medalist 4340
product family. Products in the Medalist 4342 family include the 4.3 GB
Medalist 4342 (ST34342A), the 3.2 GB Medalist 3232 (ST33232A), the 2.1 GB
Medalist 2122 (ST32122A) and the 1 GB Medalist 1022 (ST31022A).
 
  The Medalist 8641 family started volume production in the third quarter of
fiscal 1998. This mainstream product family has a spindle rotation speed of
5,400 rpm, features low acoustics and the Ultra-ATA interface, and includes
Seagate's exclusive SeaShield to protect the printed circuit board from
handling and electrostatic damage. Products include the 8.6 GB Medalist 8641
(ST38641A), 6.5 GB Medalist 6531 (ST36531A), 4.3 GB Medalist 4321 (ST34321A),
3.2 GB Medalist 3221 (ST33221A), and 2.1 GB Medalist 2110 (ST32110A). These
products are positioned for the mainstream personal computer market.
 
  The Medalist 10240 family started volume production in the first quarter of
fiscal 1999. This product family extensively leverages the Medalist 8641
product family, and includes the 10.2 GB Medalist 10240 (ST310240A) and the
single-disc 2.5 GB Medalist 2510 (ST32510A). It has the same features as the
Medalist 8641 family with more capacity. The 10.2 GB product is targeted at
mainstream desktop systems while the 2.5 GB product is targeted at entry-
level, low-cost systems.
 
  The Medalist Pro 9140 family was announced during the second fiscal quarter
of fiscal 1998 and production began during the third quarter. This family
targets the performance market segment. These drives are available in three
capacities, the Medalist Pro 9140 (ST39140A) at 9.1 GB, the Medalist Pro 6530
(ST36530A) at 6.5 GB, and the Medalist Pro 4520 (ST34520A) at 4.5 GB.
 
  During fiscal 1998, Seagate addressed the new sub-$1,000 personal computer
market with design and manufacturing efforts to provide an appropriate disc
drive to OEMs. These efforts culminated in the announcement in June 1998 of
the ST32111A. This 3.5 inch drive provides 2.1 GB of storage capacity for the
entry level or first time buyer market.
 
 Workstation Systems
 
  In 1992, the Company introduced the Barracuda family of 3.5 inch disc
drives. At 7,200 rpm the Barracuda had the highest spindle rotation speed of
any drives produced at that time. In fiscal year 1997, the Company introduced
two new products in the Barracuda family, the Barracuda 4LP and the Barracuda
4XL. The Barracuda 4 LP is a 4 GB formatted capacity, high-performance drive
in the low-profile form factor. Volume production of the Barracuda 4LP began
in the second quarter of fiscal 1997. The Barracuda 4XL is a 4.5 GB formatted
capacity drive in the low-profile form factor. The Barracuda 4XL, which began
volume production during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997, is designed to
provide a balance of price and performance for the workstation market as it
matures. In the third quarter of fiscal 1998, volume production began on the
Barracuda 9LP and the Barracuda 18. These are 9 GB and 18 GB formatted
capacity, high-performance drives with read seek times of 7.1 msec and 7.6
msec, respectively. The Barracuda 9LP has a low-profile form factor design.
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
 Server/Multi-user Systems
 
  High-end applications range from digital video, video-on-demand, high-end
file servers, mainframes and minicomputers to supercomputers. The Barracuda 9,
a 9.1 GB formatted capacity drive, is the third generation of ultrahigh
performance disc drives in the Barracuda family, described above. The
Barracuda 9 began volume production in the second quarter of fiscal 1997. The
Barracuda 4LP and 4XL and the Barracuda 9LP and 18, discussed under
"Workstation Systems" above, are also used in server/multi-user systems.
 
  In August 1996, the Company announced the 3.5 inch Cheetah family, with
spindle rotation speeds of 10,000 rpm, formatted capacities of 4.5 GB and 9.1
GB, seek times of 7.5 msec and sustained data transfer rates in excess of 15
megabytes ("MB") per second. This drive family is focused at the very high
performance segment of the market. Volume production of the Cheetah 4LP and
the Cheetah 9 began in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 1997,
respectively. The Cheetah 9LP and the Cheetah 18 are the second generation
10,000 rpm drives and have formatted capacities of 9 GB and 18 GB,
respectively, and read seek times of 5.2 msec and 5.7 msec, respectively.
Volume production of these drives began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.
Both drives have data transfer rates up to 80 MB per second with the Ultra2
ATA interface or 100 MB per second with the Fibre Channel interface.
 
  Addressing the high-end 5.25 inch market the Company has continued to
leverage its Elite product line. In the third quarter of fiscal 1997,
production commenced on the Elite 23, a high performance, 5.25 inch disc drive
with 23 GB of formatted capacity and a spindle rotation speed of 5,400 rpm. In
the second quarter of fiscal 1998, production of the Elite 47 began. This
drive is a 5.25 inch disc drive with 47 GB of formatted capacity and read seek
times of 13 msec.
 
  The Barracuda, Cheetah and Elite families all utilize industry leading
technologies such as MR heads, PRML channels, embedded servo and laser
textured media.
 
 Tape Drives
 
  Tape drives are peripheral hardware devices which enable low cost storage
and protection of large volumes of data through the use of small tape
cartridges. Computer systems of all types increasingly need dedicated backup
storage peripherals that combine high capacity, high performance, low cost and
reliability. Seagate markets a broad line of Travan, Digital Audio Tape (DAT)
and Advanced Intelligent Tape (AIT) drives and autoloaders ranging from 8 GB
to 200 GB in capacity, for a wide range of backup and removable storage needs.
The Company currently produces backup solutions for market segments from
desktop personal computers to midrange servers to complement its line of disc
drive products. A substantial portion of the Company's tape drive products
employ head technologies developed by the Company. The Company offers tape
products through a variety of channels including OEMs, distributors, VARs,
resellers and system integrators. The Company works closely with OEMs to
customize storage solutions that meet their customers' needs.
 
 Hornet Travan Drives
 
  Seagate's family of low-profile Hornet Travan tape drives provides backup
solutions for low-cost servers with 8 GB to 20 GB of data storage on a single
low-cost removable cartridge. In September 1997, Seagate launched the Hornet
Travan Network Series (NS) products with read-while-write technology and
hardware data compression. The Company's 8 GB Hornet Travan products are
available with either SCSI or IDE interfaces and address the need for higher
performance tape solutions at an economical price. All Hornet tape drives are
sold either as bare drives or are bundled with software and other accessories
and marketed under the "TapeStor" brand. The Company's Hornet Travan drives
are manufactured by Seagate in Singapore.
 
 DAT Drives
 
  High-speed networked computer environments need automatic data protection
and backup in the form of dedicated removable storage peripherals that combine
high capacity, reliability, and low cost per megabyte in a
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
small form factor. The Seagate family of DAT drives and autoloaders provides a
balance of these features, storing up to 96 GB of data. All Seagate DAT
products use the industry accepted high speed SCSI-2 interface which is the
dominant systems interface for storage peripherals of this class. In June
1998, Seagate announced its commitment to DAT technology with plans to produce
a DAT drive based on the latest Digital Data Storage (DDS) standard, DDS-4.
The new standard will allow up to 40 GB of storage with compression on a
single DDS-4 cartridge. All DAT products are currently manufactured by
Matsushita-Kotobuki Electronics Industries, Ltd. ("MKE") in Japan.
 
 Sidewinder AIT Drives
 
  Seagate's Sidewinder AIT drives and autoloaders offer high data integrity,
reliability and performance for midrange servers and tape libraries. Seagate's
stand alone drive, the Sidewinder 50, offers up to 50 GB of capacity while the
Sidewinder 200 autoloader offers up to 200 GB of storage on four AIT tapes.
AIT offers many performance advantages such as fast cartridge load and file
access times, a thorough self-cleaning head and durable AME (Advanced Metal
Evaporation) media. In addition, Sidewinder drives are available in both
external and compact internal form factors for easy integration. Sidewinder
drives are currently manufactured for Seagate by Sony.
 
 Linear Tape Open (LTO)
 
  In April 1998, Seagate, Hewlett-Packard and IBM jointly announced Linear
Tape Open ("LTO") technology for licensing to storage manufacturers. LTO is a
powerful open tape architecture for tape storage products that is expected to
surpass current tape capacity and performance levels. LTO is available for
licensing to vendors in two formats: Accelis, for applications with fast-
access requirements and Ultrium for high capacity needs. Products based on LTO
technology are expected to be available sometime in 1999.
 
 Other Products
 
  The Company offers warranty and out-of-warranty repair service to users of
its disc and tape drives. The Company also offers software products directed
towards the client/server and network computing environments. See "Seagate
Software, Inc.."
 
SOFTWARE SOFTWARE, INC.
 
  The Company is continuing its strategy of developing and marketing software
products enabling business users and Information Technology (IT) professionals
to manage enterprise information. The Company believes that managing the
exponential growth of information and the growing need for information
infrastructures combined with increasingly decentralized decision making are
key challenges inherent in today's mission critical client/server computing
environments. The Company's strategy is to respond to these challenges by
offering Enterprise Information Management ("EIM") software solutions which
consist of three core components -- Information Delivery, Information Analysis
and Information Availability. EIM integrates departmental information,
optimizes decision-making and ensures consistent access to information by
providing comprehensive data availability and protection.
 
  In April 1996, pursuant to the acquisition of a number of software companies
beginning in May 1994 and the merger with Conner and its Arcada Software
subsidiary in February 1996, the Company consolidated its software operations
under Seagate Software, Inc. ("Seagate Software"). Headquartered in Scotts
Valley, California and having over 40 offices and operations in 17 countries
worldwide, Seagate Software is comprised of two operating groups, each focused
on the growing need for superior EIM.
 
  Seagate Software's Information Management Group ("IMG") offers business
intelligence ("BI") software solutions featuring the information delivery and
analysis components of EIM. IMG's products include features
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
 
such as query and reporting, automated report scheduling and distribution,
information delivery across the World Wide Web, on-line analytical processing,
forecasting, statistical analysis, discovery and data mining.
 
  Seagate Software's Network and Storage Management Group ("NSMG") offers
network and storage management software solutions which focus on the
availability component of EIM by enabling IT professionals to manage
distributed network resources and secure and protect enterprise data. NSMG's
products include features such as system backup, disaster recovery, migration,
replication, automated client protection, storage resource management,
scheduling, event correlation and desktop management.
 
  Seagate Software is a majority-owned and consolidated subsidiary of the
Company to which the Company contributed most of its software product assets
in 1996. In connection with the contribution, Seagate Software issued
preferred stock and common stock to the Company and its subsidiaries. As of
July 3, 1998, the Company and one of its subsidiaries held 99.7% of Seagate
Software's outstanding capital stock. Seagate Software is subject to the
reporting and other requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and grants options to its employees and certain employees of the
Company through the Seagate Software, Inc. 1996 Stock Option Plan. No public
market currently exists for the common stock of Seagate Software into which
such options are exercisable. On a diluted basis, the outstanding minority
interests of Seagate Software were approximately 17.8% as of July 3, 1998, and
such interests consisted of outstanding common stock and options to acquire
common stock held by certain employees and directors of Seagate Software and
the Company.
 
MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS
 
  The Company sells its products to OEMs, distributors, resellers, dealers,
system integrators and retailers. OEM customers incorporate Seagate drives
into computer systems for resale. OEMs either manufacture and assemble
computer system components into computer systems; purchase components to build
their systems; or purchase complete computer systems and integrate the drives
and other hardware and software. Distributors typically resell Seagate disc
drives to small OEMs, dealers, system integrators and other resellers. Certain
resellers to which the Company directly sells its products also resell Seagate
drives as part of enhanced packages (e.g., an add-on kit for a computer or as
part of their own computers). Shipments to OEMs were 65%, 71% and 72% of disc
drive revenue in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. In 1998 and 1997
sales to Compaq Computer Corporation accounted for approximately 13% and 11%,
respectively, of the Company's consolidated revenue. No other customer
accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue in 1998 or 1997. No customer
accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue in 1996. In 1998,
consolidated revenue declined to $6.819 billion from $8.940 billion in 1997.
In response to this decline in revenue the Company initiated a restructuring
plan to align its worldwide operations with market conditions and to improve
the productivity of its operations and the efficiency of its development
efforts. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations--Results of Operations--1998 vs 1997."
 
 OEMs
 
  OEM customers typically enter into purchase agreements with the Company.
These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times,
product support obligations and other terms and conditions, usually for
periods of 12 to 24 months, although product support obligations generally
extend substantially beyond this period. These master agreements typically do
not commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products. Deliveries
are scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited
lead time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without
significant penalty. Anticipated orders from many of Seagate's customers have
in the past failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred
as a result of changes in their business needs. Such order fluctuations and
deferrals have had a material adverse effect on the Company's operations in
the past, and there can be no assurance that the Company will not experience
such adverse effects in the future.
 
 Distributors
 
  The Company's distributors, located throughout the world, generally enter
into non-exclusive agreements for the redistribution of the Company's
products. Distributors typically furnish the Company with a non-binding
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
 
indication of their near-term requirements. Product deliveries are generally
scheduled based on a weekly confirmation by the distributor of its
requirements for that week. The agreements typically provide the distributors
with price protection with respect to their inventory of Seagate drives at the
time of a reduction by Seagate in its selling price for the drives, and also
provide limited rights to return the product.
 
 Service and Warranty
 
  Seagate warrants its products against defects in design, materials and
workmanship by the Company generally for two to five years depending upon the
capacity category of the drive, with the higher capacity products being
warranted for the longer periods. Warranty periods for drives have been
increasing and may continue to increase. The Company's products are
refurbished or repaired at facilities located in the United States, Singapore
and Malaysia.
 
 Sales Offices
 
  The Company maintains sales offices throughout the United States and in
Australia, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, Singapore,
South Korea, Sweden and Taiwan. Foreign sales are subject to certain controls
and restrictions, including, in the case of certain countries, approval by the
office of Export Administration of the United States Department of Commerce
and other United States governmental agencies.
 
BACKLOG
 
  In view of customers' rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no
penalty, the Company believes backlog in the disc drive industry may be
misleading. The Company's backlog includes only those orders for which a
delivery schedule has been specified by the customer. Substantially all orders
shown as backlog at July 3, 1998 were scheduled for delivery within six
months. Because many customers place large orders for delivery throughout the
year, and because of the possibility of customer cancellation of orders or
changes in delivery schedules, the Company's backlog as of any particular date
is not indicative of the Company's potential sales for any succeeding fiscal
period. The Company's order backlog at July 3, 1998 was approximately $793
million compared with approximately $960 million at June 27, 1997.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
  The Company's business objectives require it to establish manufacturing
capacity in anticipation of market demand. The key elements of the Company's
manufacturing strategy are: high-volume, low-cost assembly and test; vertical
integration in the manufacture of selected components; and establishment and
maintenance of key vendor relationships. The highly competitive disc drive
industry requires that the Company manufacture significant volumes of high-
quality drives at low unit cost. To do this, the Company must rapidly achieve
high manufacturing yields and obtain uninterrupted access to high-quality
components in required volumes at competitive prices.
  Manufacturing of the Company's rigid disc drives is a complex process,
requiring a "clean room" environment, the assembly of precision components
within narrow tolerances and extensive testing to ensure reliability. The
first step in the manufacturing of a rigid disc drive is the assembly of the
actuator mechanism, heads, discs, and spindle motor in a housing to form the
head-disc assembly (the "HDA"). The assembly of the HDA involves a combination
of manual and semiautomated processes. After the HDA is assembled, a servo
pattern is magnetically recorded on the disc surfaces. Upon completion,
circuit boards are mated to the HDA and the completed unit is thoroughly
tested prior to packaging and shipment. Final assembly and test operations of
the Company's disc drives take place primarily at facilities located in
Singapore, Malaysia, China, Minnesota and Oklahoma. Subassembly and component
operations are performed at the Company's facilities in Singapore, Malaysia,
Thailand, Minnesota, California, Northern Ireland, Indonesia, Mexico, and
Scotland. In addition, independent entities manufacture or assemble components
for the Company in the United States, Europe and
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
 
various Far East countries including Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, China, the
Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand.
 
  The Company believes that it must continue to develop automated
manufacturing processes in order to remain competitive. In this regard, the
Company continually selectively evaluates which steps in the manufacturing
process would benefit from automation. There can be no assurance that the
Company's efforts to develop and improve its automated manufacturing processes
will be successful. Any failure of the Company to continue to develop and
improve its automated manufacturing processes could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business.
 
  The cost, quality and availability of certain components including heads,
media, ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), spindle motors,
actuator motors, printed circuit boards and custom semiconductors are critical
to the successful production of disc drives. The Company's design and vertical
integration have allowed it to internally manufacture substantial percentages
of its critical components other than ASICs and motors. The Company's
objectives of vertical integration are to maintain control over component
technology, quality and availability, and to reduce costs. The Company
believes that its strategy of vertical integration gives it an advantage over
other disc drive manufacturers. However, this strategy entails a high level of
fixed costs and requires a high volume of production to be successful. During
periods of decreased production, these high fixed costs in the past have had
and in the future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
results of operations.
 
  All three stages of manufacturing for both magneto-resistive and inductive
thin-film heads are carried out at the Company's facilities. These three
stages are wafer production, slider fabrication and head gimbal assembly.
While the majority of its requirements for magnetic recording heads are
produced internally, the Company, in the past year, has begun purchasing some
heads from third party suppliers to afford it access to the widest possible
head technology available. However, the Company plans to continue to
manufacture the majority of its head requirements internally. For disc, or
media, production the Company purchases aluminum substrate blanks from third
parties mainly in the U.S. and Japan. These blanks are machined, plated and
polished to produce finished substrates at the Company's plants in California,
Mexico and Northern Ireland. The Company's media manufacturing plants in
California and Singapore put these substrates through the manufacturing
processes necessary to deposit the magnetic storage layer, the protective
carbon overcoat and the lubricant as well as to achieve the proper degree of
final surface smoothness and also carry out the quality assurance activities
necessary to deliver finished media to Seagate's disc drive manufacturing
plants. The Company's internal media manufacturing operations supply the
majority of its needs for media but media is also purchased from third party
suppliers located in the U.S. and the Far East. Spindle motors are sourced
principally from outside vendors in the Far East. The Company designs, in
partnership with a major ASIC manufacturer, nearly all of its ASICs for motor
and actuator control and manufactures a small portion of these circuits. It
designs all or part of many of the other ASICs in the drive such as interface
controllers, read/write channels and pre-amplifiers, and procures these from
third parties. The vast majority of the high-volume surface-mount printed
circuit assemblies are assembled internally. The Company evaluates the need
for second sources for all of its components on a case-by-case basis and,
where it is deemed desirable and feasible to do so, secures multiple sources.
The Company has experienced production delays when unable to obtain sufficient
quantities of certain components or assembly capacity. The Company attempts to
maintain component inventory levels adequate for its short-term needs.
However, an inability to obtain essential components, if prolonged, would
adversely affect the Company's business.
 
  Because of the significant fixed costs associated with the production of its
products and components and the industry's history of declining prices, the
Company must continue to produce and sell its disc drives in significant
volume, continue to lower manufacturing costs and carefully monitor inventory
levels. Toward these ends, the Company continually evaluates its components
and manufacturing processes as well as the desirability of transferring volume
production of disc drives and related components between facilities, including
transfer overseas to countries where labor costs and other manufacturing costs
are significantly lower than in the U.S., principally Singapore, Thailand,
Malaysia and China. Frequently, transfer of production of a product to a
different facility requires qualification of such new facility by certain of
the Company's OEM customers. There
 
                                      10
<PAGE>
 
can be no certainty that such changes and transfers will be implemented on a
cost-effective basis without delays or disruption in the Company's production
and without adversely affecting the Company's results of operations. Due to
declining customer orders and price erosion as a result of intensely
competitive market conditions in fiscal 1998, the Company has initiated a
restructuring plan resulting in the closure of certain manufacturing
facilities to reduce excess capacity. See "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Results of
Operations--1998 vs 1997."
 
  Offshore operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including delays
in transportation, changes in governmental policies, tariffs, import/export
regulations, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates in addition to
geographic limitations on management controls and reporting. Although the
Company has not had any significant adverse experience in this regard and has
significant experience in the offshore production of its products, there can
be no assurance that the inherent risks of offshore operations will not
adversely effect the Company's future operating results. During fiscal 1998,
several Far East currencies significantly declined in value relative to the
U.S. dollar. As a result during fiscal 1998, the Company was required to mark-
to-market a portion of its foreign currency forward exchange contracts that it
had taken out as a hedge of these currencies and take a $76 million charge
against income. As of July 3, 1998, the Company had effectively closed out all
of its foreign currency forward exchange contracts by purchasing offsetting
contracts. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations--Disclosures about Market Risk." Certain of the Far
East countries in which the Company operates have experienced political unrest
and the Company's operations have been adversely affected for short periods of
time.
 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
  The Company's strategy for new products emphasizes developing and
introducing on a timely and cost effective basis products that offer
functionality and performance equal to or better than competitive product
offerings. The rigid disc drive industry is characterized by ongoing, rapid
technological change, relatively short product life cycles and rapidly
changing user needs. The Company believes that its future success will depend
upon its ability to develop, manufacture and market products which meet
changing user needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to changes in
technology and standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. Accordingly,
the Company is committed to the development of new component technologies, new
products, and the continuing evaluation of alternative technologies.
  The Company develops new disc drive products and the processes to produce
them at four locations: Longmont, Colorado; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
Bloomington, Minnesota; and Singapore. Generally speaking, Longmont and
Singapore are responsible for development of 3.5 inch form factor drives
intended for desktop personal computer systems; Oklahoma City is responsible
for development of 3.5 inch disc drives with capacities and interfaces
intended for use in minicomputers, supermicrocomputers, workstations and file
servers; and Bloomington is responsible for 3.5 inch and 5.25 inch products
principally intended for use in systems ranging from workstations and
superminicomputers to mainframe and supercomputers as well as new markets such
as digital video and video-on-demand. Development of 2.5 inch form factor
drives intended for mobile personal computers is also conducted in Longmont.
  The Company is increasing its focus on research and development and is
realigning its disc drive development process. Seagate's Advanced Concepts
Labs program focuses the Company's disc drive and component research efforts
into three lab groups that specialize in developing advanced technologies for
future data storage products. The three groups are storage products, recording
heads and recording media. These labs are designed to deliver significant
advances in disc drive science to meet the advanced requirements of future
data storage devices. The charter of Advanced Concepts is to ensure timely
availability of mature component and subsystem technologies to the Company's
product development teams and allow the Company to leverage and coordinate
those technologies across products. The drive development process is being
realigned to ensure a common and standard process that will consistently
deliver time-to-market products. In August 1997, the Company acquired Quinta,
a developer of ultra-high capacity disc drive technologies, including a
 
                                      11
<PAGE>
 
new optically assisted Winchester ("OAW") technology. OAW technology is
designed to integrate optical, magnetic and telecommunications technologies
for the purpose of building a new class of high capacity cost-effective disc
drive storage devices. There can be no assurance that Quinta's OAW technology
development effort will be successful.
 
  The Company has focused its component research and development efforts in
four main areas: heads, media, motors and ASICs. The major emphasis of this
research and development effort is higher capacity, reduced size and power
consumption, improved performance and reliability, and reduced cost.
 
  The principal areas of research and development relating to spindle motors
are improved bearings, lowered power requirements, reduced noise level,
improved reliability, improved magnet strength, and reduced cost. With a
continuous demand for increased data storage density, the Company is
researching alternative motor technologies in addition to current ball bearing
spindle motors, including fluid dynamic motors and air bearing motors. The
motor design and development center is located in Scotts Valley, California.
 
  The Company's head research and development efforts are focused on
increasing recording densities, reducing the size and mass of the slider,
developing suspensions and assembly technology for reduced head size, reducing
the cost and increasing the reliability. This research and development
includes substantial effort to develop and manufacture MR and other head
technologies such as Giant MR ("GMR") heads and advanced air bearing sliders
for high areal density and small form factor products. There can be no
assurance that the Company's head development efforts will be successful and a
failure of the Company to successfully manufacture and market products
incorporating its advanced head technology in a timely manner could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
  Media research and development is primarily related to achieving higher
areal densities consistent with the efforts undertaken in the head operations
of the Company as well as developing the capability to produce media of
reduced dimensions from those of current main-stream products. These media
research and development efforts are subdivided into several main approaches
to achieving these goals: developing smoother, flatter substrates that permit
lower head flying heights; developing thinner, smaller-diameter substrates to
support development of physically smaller disc drives; developing improved
magnetic storage alloys, overcoat materials and surface lubricants that permit
higher coercivities and improved electromagnetic performance while providing
enhanced wear and reliability performance; and, finally, developing enhanced
substrate and media manufacturing processes that allow the Company to
implement the results of its other developments while increasing the
consistency and reducing the cost of producing high performance magnetic
storage media. As a consequence of these efforts, the Company reviews, on an
on-going basis, not only new versions and smaller size versions of the
industry-standard aluminum and glass substrates but also substrates of
alternative materials. The Company experiments with the elemental content of
the storage alloys and overcoat materials and the sputtering processes used to
deposit them. The Company evaluates different lubricants and pursues
variations in the techniques used to obtain the proper degree of surface
smoothness including both mechanical and other processes. There can be no
assurance that the Company's media development efforts will be successful.
 
  ASIC development has been and will continue to be focused on optimizing the
architecture for system performance, cost and reliability. In addition, the
focus has been and will continue to be on reducing the number of parts, the
amount of power consumption, and the size, and increasing areal densities by
use of advanced signal processing techniques such as PRML read/write channels.
 
  In addition to developing new products and components, the Company devotes
significant resources to product engineering aimed at improving manufacturing
processes, lowering manufacturing costs and increasing volume production of
new and existing products. Process engineering groups are located with the
disc drive development groups and the reliability engineering groups in
locations listed above; however, most of the Company's volume production is
done in locations remote from these groups and the development of the volume
processes are completed at the volume manufacturing sites.
 
                                      12
<PAGE>
 
  No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully
complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that
the Company will be able to manufacture new products in volume with acceptable
manufacturing yields, or successfully market these products, or that these
products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. Failure to meet
any of the above objectives in a timely manner has in the past and may in the
future have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of
operations.
 
  During the fiscal years ended July 3, 1998, June 27, 1997 and June 28, 1996,
the Company's product development expenses were $585 million, $459 million and
$420 million, respectively.
 
PATENTS AND LICENSES
 
  The Company has approximately 905 U.S. patents and 450 foreign patents and
has approximately 696 U.S. and 831 foreign patent applications pending. Due to
the rapid technological change that characterizes the rigid disc drive
industry, the Company believes that the improvement of existing products,
reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and
development of new products are generally more important than patent
protection in establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage.
Nevertheless, the Company believes that patents are of value to its business
and intends to continue its efforts to obtain patents, when available, in
connection with its research and development program. There can be no
assurance that any patents obtained will provide substantial protection or be
of commercial benefit to the Company, or that their validity will not be
challenged.
 
  Because of rapid technological development in the disc drive industry,
certain of the Company's products have been and it is possible other products
could be accused of infringement of existing patents. The rigid disc drive
industry has been characterized by significant litigation relating to patent
and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, the Company
receives claims that certain of its products infringe patents of third
parties. Although the Company has been able to resolve some such claims or
potential claims by obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question
without a material adverse affect on the Company, other such claims are
pending which if resolved unfavorably to the Company could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business. For a description of current
disputes see the "Litigation" note to the Company's consolidated financial
statements. In addition, the costs of engaging in intellectual property
litigation may be substantial regardless of outcome. The Company has patent
cross licenses with a number of companies in the computer industry.
Additionally, the Company has agreements in principle with other major disc
drive companies.
 
COMPETITION
 
  The rigid disc drive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturers
competing for a limited number of major customers. The principal competitive
factors in the rigid disc drive market include product quality and
reliability, form factor, storage capacity, price per unit, price per
megabyte, product performance, production volume capability and responsiveness
to customers. The relative importance of these factors varies with different
customers and for different products. The Company believes that it is
generally competitive as to these factors.
 
  The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience intense
competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which
have far greater resources than the Company. In addition to independent rigid
disc drive manufacturers, the Company also faces competition from present and
potential customers, including IBM, Toshiba, NEC, Fujitsu Limited and Samsung
who continually evaluate whether to manufacture their own drives or purchase
them from outside sources. These manufacturers also sell drives to third
parties which results in direct competition with the Company.
 
  Product life cycles are relatively short in the disc drive industry. The
Company expects its competitors to offer new and existing products at prices
necessary to gain or retain market share and customers. To remain competitive,
the Company believes it will be necessary to continue to reduce its prices and
aggressively enhance its product offerings. In addition to the foregoing, the
ability of the Company to compete successfully will also
 
                                      13
<PAGE>
 
depend on its ability to provide timely product introductions and to continue
to reduce production costs. The Company's establishment of production
facilities in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and China are directed toward such
cost reductions. The Company believes that its future success will depend upon
its ability to develop, manufacture and market products of high quality and
reliability which meet changing user needs, and which successfully anticipate
or respond to changes in technology and standards on a cost-effective and
timely basis, of which there can be no assurance.
 
  The introduction of products using alternative technologies could be a
significant source of competition. For example, high-speed semiconductor
memory could compete with the Company's products in the future. Semiconductor
memory (SRAM and DRAM) is much faster than magnetic disc drives, but currently
is volatile (i.e., subject to loss of data in the event of power failure) and
much more costly. Flash EE prom, a nonvolatile semiconductor memory, is
currently much more costly and, while it has higher read performance than disc
drives, it has lower write performance. Flash EE prom could become competitive
in the near future for applications requiring less storage capacity (i.e.,
less than 200 MB) than is required in the Company's more traditional computer
related market place.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  From June 27, 1997 to July 3, 1998, the number of persons employed worldwide
by the Company was reduced from approximately 111,000 to approximately 87,000.
This reduction was part of a restructuring plan begun in January 1998 to align
the Company's worldwide operations with market conditions and to improve the
productivity of its operations and the efficiency of its development efforts.
Approximately 71,000 of the Company's employees were located in the Company's
Far East operations as of July 3, 1998. In addition, the Company makes use of
supplemental employees, principally in manufacturing, who are hired on an as-
needed basis. Management believes that the future success of the Company will
depend in part on its ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all
levels, of which there can be no assurance. The Company believes that its
employee relations are good.
 
                                      14
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  Seagate's executive offices are located in Scotts Valley, California.
Principal manufacturing facilities are located in Singapore, Thailand,
Malaysia, Minnesota, California, Oklahoma, China and Northern Ireland. A major
portion of the Company's facilities are occupied under leases which expire at
various times through 2015. The following is a summary of square footage owned
or leased by the Company:
 
                           FACILITIES (SQUARE FEET)
<TABLE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<CAPTION>
                             MANUFACTURING   PRODUCT   ADMINIS-
          LOCATION            & WAREHOUSE  DEVELOPMENT  TRATIVE    TOTAL
          --------           ------------- ----------- --------- ----------
<S>                          <C>           <C>         <C>       <C>
NORTH AMERICA
  California
    Central California......      16,768      36,934      30,325     84,027 (1)
    Northern California.....     451,813     208,722     281,830    942,365 (2)
    Southern California.....     345,590     107,888      46,844    500,322 (3)
  Colorado..................      48,849     225,424      25,849    300,122
  Minnesota.................     891,805      73,498     217,631  1,182,934 (4)
  Oklahoma..................     294,301     110,097      93,502    497,900 (5)
  Northeast USA.............         --       21,890      12,818     34,708
  Southeast USA.............       6,750      36,618      93,957    137,325 (6)
  Other USA.................      46,341         947      14,562     61,850 (7)
  Canada/Mexico.............     172,095      46,654      92,546    311,295 (8)
                               ---------     -------   --------- ----------
TOTAL NORTH AMERICA.........   2,274,312     868,672     909,864  4,052,848
                               ---------     -------   --------- ----------
EUROPE
  England...................      19,878      15,632      31,283     66,793 (9)
  Ireland...................         --          --        1,200      1,200 (10)
  Northern Ireland..........     266,031       4,900      50,169    321,100 (11)
  Netherlands...............      92,234         --       28,955    121,189 (12)
  Scotland..................      89,555       3,680      19,988    113,223 (13)
  Other Europe..............         --          --       55,105     55,105 (14)
                               ---------     -------   --------- ----------
TOTAL EUROPE................     467,698      24,212     186,700    678,610
                               ---------     -------   --------- ----------
ASIA
  China.....................     165,420         --       25,972    191,392 (15)
  Malaysia..................   1,321,931         --      148,556  1,470,487 (16)
  Philippines...............         --          --          999        999 (17)
  Singapore.................   1,530,717      35,519     288,569  1,854,805 (18)
  Thailand..................   1,532,265         --      226,846  1,759,111 (19)
  Other Pacific Rim.........      38,470         --       66,544    105,014 (20)
                               ---------     -------   --------- ----------
TOTAL ASIA..................   4,588,803      35,519     757,486  5,381,808
                               ---------     -------   --------- ----------
TOTAL.......................   7,330,813     928,403   1,854,050 10,113,266
                               =========     =======   ========= ==========
</TABLE>
- --------
 (1) Includes approximately 30,598 square feet owned by the Company.
 
 (2) Includes approximately 324,756 square feet owned by the Company. Excludes
     460,356 square feet unoccupied and approximately 50,322 square feet
     subleased to others.
 
 (3) Includes approximately 114,182 square feet owned by the Company. Excludes
     approximately 38,209 square feet subleased to others.
 
 (4) Includes approximately 650,846 square feet owned by the Company. Excludes
     approximately 217,802 square feet subleased to others. Excludes
     approximately 350,000 square feet under construction.
 
 (5) Includes approximately 268,220 square feet owned by the Company.
 
                                      15
<PAGE>
 
 (6) Excludes approximately 5,000 square feet unoccupied.
 
 (7) Excludes approximately 19,206 square feet unoccupied.
 
 (8) Excludes approximately 478,000 square feet under construction.
 
 (9) Excludes approximately 32,206 square feet subleased to others.
 
(10) Excludes approximately 155,000 square feet owned by the Company and
     unoccupied.
 
(11) Includes approximately 321,100 square feet owned by the Company. Excludes
     approximately 250,000 square feet under construction.
 
(12) Excludes approximately 130,290 square feet unoccupied.
 
(13) Excludes approximately 10,775 square feet unoccupied. Excludes
     approximately 16,000 square feet under construction.
 
(14) Excludes approximately 3,263 square feet subleased to others.
 
(15) Excludes approximately 32,056 square feet unoccupied.
 
(16) Includes approximately 1,639,322 square feet owned by the Company.
     Excludes approximately 170,595 square feet unoccupied.
 
(17) Excludes approximately 312,365 square feet owned by the Company and
     unoccupied.
 
(18) Includes approximately 1,634,039 square feet owned by the Company.
     Excludes approximately 218,498 square feet unoccupied. Excludes
     approximately 8,271 square feet under construction.
 
(19) Includes approximately 844,594 square feet owned by the Company. Excludes
     approximately 201,417 square feet unoccupied.
 
(20) Includes approximately 8,303 square feet owned by the Company.
 
                                      16
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to pages
30 and 35 of the Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 hereto.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  Not applicable.
 
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The present executive officers of the Company are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             EXECUTIVE
                                                                              OFFICER
          NAME            AGE                    POSITION                      SINCE
          ----            ---                    --------                    ---------
<S>                       <C> <C>                                            <C>
Stephen J. Luczo........   41 Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief        1993
                              Operating Officer and Director of the Company
                              and Chairman of the Board of Directors,
                              Seagate Software, Inc.
Bernardo A. Carballo....   49 Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales,       1991
                              Marketing, Product Line Management, Tape
                              Operations and Customer Service
Don G. Colton...........   50 Executive Vice President, Corporate Quality      1997
Brendan C. Hegarty......   55 Executive Vice President, Chief Operating        1989
                              Officer, Recording Heads Group
Thomas F. Mulvaney......   49 Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and      1996
                              Corporate Secretary
Charles C. Pope.........   43 Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief         1998
                              Financial Officer
Townsend H. Porter, Jr..   52 Executive Vice President, Drive Operations       1997
                              and Chief Technical Officer, Storage Products
                              Group
Donald L. Waite.........   65 Executive Vice President, Chief                  1983
                              Administrative Officer and Assistant
                              Secretary
William D. Watkins......   45 Executive Vice President, Disc Drive             1996
                              Operations and Chief Operating Officer,
                              Recording Media Group
</TABLE>
 
  Officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors and serve at the
discretion of the Board.
 
  Mr. Luczo joined the Company in October 1993 as Senior Vice President,
Corporate Development. In March 1995, he was appointed Executive Vice
President, Corporate Development and Chief Operating Officer of Seagate
Software. In July 1997, he was appointed Chairman of the Board of Seagate
Software. Mr. Luczo was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer of
the Company in September 1997. In July 1998, Mr. Luczo was promoted to Chief
Executive Officer and appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company.
Prior to joining the Company he was Senior Managing Director of the Global
Technology Group of Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc., an investment banking firm, from
February 1992 to October 1993.
 
  Mr. Carballo was General Manager, Product Line Management for the Company's
Oklahoma City operations at the time of the Company's acquisition of Imprimis
in 1989. In 1990 he was promoted to Vice President, Product Line Management,
Oklahoma City operations, in September 1991 he was promoted to Senior Vice
President, Sales, Marketing and Product Line Management and in March 1995 he
was promoted to
 
                                      17
<PAGE>
 
Executive Vice President Worldwide Sales, Marketing, Product Line Management
and Customer Service. In September 1997, he also assumed responsibility for
Seagate's Tape Division.
 
  Mr. Colton was Vice President, Product Line Management for Seagate's
Oklahoma City and Twin Cities operations from 1991 until his promotion to
Senior Vice President, Product Line Management in August 1995. In September
1997 he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Corporate Quality. Mr.
Colton joined the Company in 1989 upon the Company's acquisition of Imprimis,
Inc.
 
  Dr. Hegarty joined Control Data/Imprimis in 1988 as Vice President, Thin-
Film Heads. In October 1989 he was named Seagate's Vice President of Recording
Heads Group in Bloomington, Minnesota, and in August 1990 was promoted to
Senior Vice President and Chief Technical Officer. In March 1995 he was
promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Recording Heads
Group. From October 1990 to October 1993 Dr. Hegarty was also a Director of
the Company. Dr. Hegarty serves as a Director of MTS Systems Corporation, an
engineering company.
 
  Mr. Mulvaney joined the Company in February 1996 with the Company's merger
with Conner Peripherals as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and
Assistant Secretary. In July 1998, Mr. Mulvaney was appointed Corporate
Secretary. Mr. Mulvaney was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at
Conner Peripherals from May 1995 until February 1996. Prior to joining Conner
Peripherals, Mr. Mulvaney was with VLSI Technology, Inc., a semiconductor
company, from May 1990 to May 1995 where he served as Vice President, General
Counsel and Secretary, and held departmental responsibility for legal, human
resources, corporate communications and facilities.
 
  Mr. Pope was promoted to Senior Vice President in January 1997 and Chief
Financial Officer in February 1998. Mr. Pope joined Seagate as director of
Budgets and Analysis with the Company's acquisition of Grenex in 1985. He has
held a variety of positions in his 13 years with Seagate including Director of
Finance for Thailand operations; Vice President, Finance, Far East operations;
Vice President, Finance and Treasurer; Vice President and General Manager,
Seagate Magnetics; and most recently, Senior Vice President Finance, Storage
Products.
 
  Mr. Porter joined the Company on June 2, 1997 as Chief Technology Officer,
Storage Products Group. In September 1997 he was promoted to Executive Vice
President. Mr. Porter was Vice President of Research and Development,
Enterprise Storage Group at Western Digital, a disc drive company, from
November 1994 to May 1997. From 1968 to 1994, Mr. Porter held engineering,
program management, and executive positions at IBM.
 
  Mr. Waite joined the Company in 1983 as Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer, and was promoted to Senior Vice President, Finance in 1984.
In March 1995 he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief
Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Waite was Chief
Financial Officer of the Company from October 1983 until February 1998 and
Secretary of the Company from October 1983 until July 1998. He was appointed
Assistant Secretary of the Company in July 1998. Mr. Waite serves as a
Director of California Micro Devices, a manufacturer of integrated passive
devices, and Seagate Software, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company.
 
  Mr. Watkins joined the Company in February 1996 with the Company's merger
with Conner Peripherals as Executive Vice President, Recording Media Group. In
October 1997, Mr. Watkins' was appointed Executive Vice President, Disc Drive
Operations and Chief Operating Officer, Recording Media Group. Prior to
joining the Company he was President and General Manager of the Conner
Peripherals Disk Division from January 1990 until December 1992. In January
1993, Mr. Watkins was promoted to Senior Vice President, Manufacturing
Operations.
 
                                      18
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
1-3 of the Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 hereto.
 
  There have been no sales of unregistered securities by the Company since
July 1, 1995.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
1-3 of the Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 hereto.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
3-14 of the Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1 hereto.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
1-3 and 15-37 of the Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13.1
hereto.
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 
                                      19
<PAGE>
 
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  Information regarding directors of the Company and compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are hereby
incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled "Election of
Directors" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,"
respectively, in the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission
within 120 days of the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General
Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K. The information required by that Item
concerning executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Report.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General Instruction G(3)
to Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General Instruction G(3)
to Form 10-K.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General Instruction G(3)
to Form 10-K.
 
                                      20
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:
 
  1.Financial Statements. The following Consolidated Financial Statements of
Seagate Technology, Inc. and Report of Independent Auditors are incorporated
by reference in Item 8:
 
    Report of Independent Auditors
 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets July 3, 1998 and June 27, 1997.
 
    Consolidated Statements of Operations Years Ended July 3, 1998; June
    27, 1997; and June 28, 1996.
 
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity Years Ended July 3,
    1998; June 27, 1997; and June 28, 1996.
 
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years Ended July 3, 1998; June
    27, 1997; and June 28, 1996.
 
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  2.Financial Statement Schedules. The following consolidated financial
statement schedule of Seagate Technology, Inc. is filed as part of this Report
and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Seagate Technology, Inc.:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     SCHEDULE                                                               PAGE
     --------                                                               ----
     <S>                                                                    <C>
     II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.................................  24
</TABLE>
 
  Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not applicable
or are not required or the information required to be set forth therein is
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.
 
  3.Exhibits:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         NOTES:
                                                                         ------
     <C>  <S>                                                            <C>
      3.1 Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, as amended.         (A)
      3.2 By-Laws of Registrant, as amended.                              (B)
      4.1 Indenture, dated as of March 1, 1997 (the "Indenture"),
          between Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company") and First
          Trust of California, National Association, as Trustee.          (C)
      4.2 Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the
          Indenture, without Exhibits, establishing the terms of the
          Company's senior notes and senior debentures.                   (C)
      4.3 Form of Senior Note.                                            (C)
      4.4 Form of Senior Debenture.                                       (C)
     10.1 1983 Incentive Stock Option Plan and form of Stock Option
          Agreement.                                                      (E)
     10.2 Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.
     10.3 Registrant's Executive Stock Plan.                              (I)
     10.4 Conner Peripherals, Inc. 1986 Incentive Stock Plan.             (I)
     10.5 Building Agreement for Land At Private Lot A14547 in Yio Chu
          Kang dated May 30, 1996 between Seagate Technology
          International and Jurong Town Corporation.
     10.6 Lease Agreement dated July 18, 1994 between Universal
          Appliances Limited and Seagate Technology (Thailand)
          Limited.
     10.7 1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Form of Option
          Agreement, as amended.
     10.8 Acquisition Agreement dated as of September 29, 1989 by and
          among Seagate Technology, Inc. and Control Data Corporation,
          Imprimis Technology Incorporated and Magnetic Peripherals,
          Inc.                                                            (G)
     10.9 Amended and Restated Directors' Option Plan and Form of
          Option Agreement.                                               (H)
</TABLE>
 
                                      21
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         NOTES:
                                                                         ------
     <C>   <S>                                                           <C>
     10.10 Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Stock Option and
           Restricted Stock Purchase Plan--1981.                          (I)
     10.11 Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Incentive Stock
           Option Plan--1981.                                             (I)
     10.12 Conner Peripherals, Inc.--Arcada Holdings, Inc. Stock
           Option Plan.                                                   (J)
     10.13 Arcada Holdings, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan.                  (J)
     10.14 Separation Agreement and Release between the Registrant and
           Alan F. Shugart dated as of July 29, 1998.
     13.1  Portions of the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
     21.1  Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
     23.1  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
     24.1  Power of Attorney (included on page 23).
     27    Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(A) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 16,
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
    33-13430) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 14,
    1987.
(B) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14 (a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended
    June 30, 1990.
(C) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(b),
    "Financial Statements and Exhibits" of the Company's Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated March 4, 1997.
(E) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1983.
(G) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(c),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2,
    1989.
(H) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1991.
(I) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-00697) as filed with the
    Commission on February 5, 1996.
(J) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-01059) as filed with the
    Commission on February 21, 1996.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K. No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company
during the quarter ended July 3, 1998.
 
                                      22
<PAGE>
 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                          Seagate Technology, Inc.
 
                                                   /s/ Stephen J. Luczo
                                          By: _________________________________
                                            (Stephen J. Luczo, Chief Executive
                                                         Officer,
                                            President, Chief Operating Officer
                                                      and a Director)
 
Dated: August 20, 1998
 
                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
 
  Know All Men By These Presents, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Stephen J. Luczo and Charles C. Pope, jointly
and severally, his or her attorney-in-fact, each with the power of
substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments
to this Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and
other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-
in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by
virtue hereof.
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             SIGNATURE                           TITLE                    DATE
             ---------                           -----                    ----
 
<S>                                  <C>                           <C>
   /s/ STEPHEN J. LUCZO              Chief Executive Officer,       August 20, 1998
____________________________________ President, Chief Operating
   Stephen J. Luczo                  Officer and a Director
                                     (Principal Executive
                                     Officer)
 
   /s/ CHARLES C. POPE               Senior Vice President and      August 20, 1998
____________________________________ Chief Financial Officer
   Charles C. Pope                   (Principal Financial and
                                     Accounting Officer)
 
   /s/ GARY B. FILLER                Co-Chairman of the Board       August 20, 1998
____________________________________
   Gary B. Filler
 
   /s/ LAWRENCE PERLMAN              Co-Chairman of the Board       August 20, 1998
____________________________________
   Lawrence Perlman
 
   /s/ KENNETH HAUGHTON              Director                       August 20, 1998
____________________________________
   Kenneth Haughton
 
   /s/ ROBERT A. KLEIST              Director                       August 20, 1998
____________________________________
   Robert A. Kleist
 
   /s/ THOMAS P. STAFFORD            Director                       August 20, 1998
____________________________________
   Thomas P. Stafford
 
   /s/ LAUREL L. WILKENING           Director                       August 20, 1998
____________________________________
   Laurel L. Wilkening
</TABLE>
 
                                      23
<PAGE>
 
                            SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         COL. A              COL. B      COL. C     COL. D      COL. E      COL. F
         ------           ------------ ---------- ---------- ------------ -----------
                                             ADDITIONS
                                       ---------------------
                                                  CHARGED TO
                           BALANCE AT  CHARGED TO   OTHER                 BALANCE AT
                          BEGINNING OF COSTS AND  ACCOUNTS-- DEDUCTIONS--   END OF
      DESCRIPTION            PERIOD     EXPENSES   DESCRIBE  DESCRIBE (1)   PERIOD
      -----------         ------------ ---------- ---------- ------------ -----------
<S>                       <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
YEAR ENDED JULY 3, 1998:
  Deducted from asset
   accounts:
    Allowance for
     doubtful accounts..  $60,413,000  $1,182,000    $--     $ 7,465,000  $54,130,000
                          ===========  ==========    ====    ===========  ===========
YEAR ENDED JUNE 27,
 1997:
  Deducted from asset
   accounts:
    Allowance for
     doubtful accounts..  $66,656,000  $5,729,000    $--     $11,972,000  $60,413,000
                          ===========  ==========    ====    ===========  ===========
YEAR ENDED JUNE 28,
 1996:
  Deducted from asset
   accounts:
    Allowance for
     doubtful accounts..  $71,702,000  $3,744,000    $--     $ 8,790,000  $66,656,000
                          ===========  ==========    ====    ===========  ===========
</TABLE>
- --------
(1)Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.
 
                                       24
<PAGE>
 
                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 EXHIBITS                                                                NOTES:
 --------                                                                ------
 <C>      <S>                                                            <C>
   3.1    Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, as amended.         (A)
   3.2    By-Laws of Registrant, as amended.                              (B)
   4.1    Indenture, dated as of March 1, 1997 (the "Indenture"),
          between Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company") and First
          Trust of California, National Association, as Trustee.          (C)
   4.2    Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the
          Indenture, without Exhibits, establishing the terms of the
          Company's senior notes and senior debentures.                   (C)
   4.3    Form of Senior Note.                                            (C)
   4.4    Form of Senior Debenture.                                       (C)
  10.1    1983 Incentive Stock Option Plan and form of Stock Option
          Agreement.                                                      (E)
  10.2    Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.
  10.3    Registrant's Executive Stock Plan.                              (I)
  10.4    Conner Peripherals, Inc. 1986 Incentive Stock Plan.             (I)
  10.5    Building Agreement for Land At Private Lot A14547 in Yio Chu
          Kang dated May 30, 1996 between Seagate Technology
          International and Jurong Town Corporation.
  10.6    Lease Agreement dated July 18, 1994 between Universal
          Appliances Limited and Seagate Technology (Thailand)
          Limited.
  10.7    1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and Form of Option
          Agreement, as amended.
  10.8    Acquisition Agreement dated as of September 29, 1989 by and
          among Seagate Technology, Inc. and Control Data Corporation,
          Imprimis Technology Incorporated and Magnetic Peripherals,
          Inc.                                                            (G)
  10.9    Amended and Restated Directors' Option Plan and Form of
          Option Agreement.                                               (H)
  10.10   Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Stock Option and
          Restricted Stock Purchase Plan--1981.                           (I)
  10.11   Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Incentive Stock
          Option Plan--1981.                                              (I)
  10.12   Conner Peripherals, Inc.--Arcada Holdings, Inc. Stock Option
          Plan.                                                           (J)
  10.13   Arcada Holdings, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan.                   (J)
  10.14   Separation Agreement and Release between the Registrant and
          Alan F. Shugart dated as of July 29, 1998.
  13.1    Portions of the 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
  21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
  23.1    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
  24.1    Power of Attorney (included on page 23).
  27      Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(A) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 16,
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
    33-13430) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 14,
    1987.
 
(B) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14 (a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended
    June 30, 1990.
 
(C) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(b),
    "Financial Statements and Exhibits" of the Company's Current Report on
    Form 8-K dated March 4, 1997.
 
(E) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1983.
 
(G) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(c),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2,
    1989.
<PAGE>
 
(H) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1991.
 
(I) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-00697) as filed with the
    Commission on February 5, 1996.
 
(J) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-01059) as filed with the
    Commission on February 21, 1996.
 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.2

                              SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                          EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
                          ----------------------------
                           (Restated August 6, 1987)
                     (As Amended Through October 27, 1994)
                        (As Amended Through April, 1997)
                       (As Amended Through August, 1998)


     The following constitutes the provisions of the Employee Stock Purchase
Plan (herein called the "Plan") of Seagate Technology (herein called the
"Company").

     1.   Purpose.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the
          -------                                                         
Company and its Designated Subsidiaries (as defined in paragraph 2(f)) with an
opportunity to purchase Common Stock of the Company through payroll deductions.
It is the intention of the Company that the Plan qualify as an "Employee Stock
Purchase Plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the
"Code").  The provisions of the Plan shall, accordingly, be construed so as to
extend and limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements of
that section of the Code.

     2.   Definitions.
          ----------- 

          (a) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

          (b) "Common Stock" means the Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of the
Company.

          (c) "Compensation" means base pay, excluding all other emoluments such
as amounts attributable to overtime, shift premium, incentive compensation,
bonuses and commissions; except that commissions paid with respect to the
Company's sales activities shall be treated as a part of base pay.  The Board or
its Committee 
<PAGE>
 
(as defined in Paragraph 13) may specifically direct the inclusions of any
excluded item of compensation in a manner consistent with the requirements of
Section 423 of the Code, as provided in Paragraph 1, but subject to the
limitations contained in Paragraph 19 hereof.

          (d) "Employee" means any person, including an officer, who is employed
by the Company or one of its Designated Subsidiaries.

          (e) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, domestic or foreign, in which
the Company owns, directly or indirectly, 50% or more of the voting shares.

          (f) "Designated Subsidiaries" means the Subsidiaries which have been
designated by the Board from time to time in its sole discretion as eligible to
participate in the Plan.

          (g) "Offering Date" means the first day of each offering period of the
Plan.

          (h) "Termination Date" means the last day of each offering period of
the Plan.

     3.   Eligibility.
          ----------- 

          (a) General Rule.  Any employee, as defined in paragraph 2, who has
              ------------                                                   
been employed by the Company or one of its Designated Subsidiaries for at least
30 days prior to the Offering Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan,
subject to the limitations imposed by Section 423(b) of the Code.
<PAGE>
 
          (b) Exceptions.  Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary
              ----------                                              
notwithstanding, no employee shall be granted an option under the Plan if,

     (i)  immediately after the grant, such employee (or any other person whose
          stock ownership would be attributed to such employee pursuant to
          Section 425(d) of the Code) would
          own shares and/or hold outstanding options to purchase shares
          possessing five percent (5%) or more of the total
          combined voting power or value of all classes of shares of the Company
          or of any subsidiary of the Company, or

    (ii)  the rate of withholding under such option would permit the employee's
          rights to purchase shares under all employee stock purchase plans of
          the Company and its subsidiaries to accrue (i.e., become exercisable)
          at a rate which exceeds Twelve Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($12,500)
          of fair market value of such shares (determined at the time such
          option is granted) for each offering period.

     4.   Offerings.  The Plan shall be implemented by one offering during each
          ---------                                                            
six month period of the Plan, commencing on September 24, 1981, the date of
effectiveness with the Securities and Exchange Commission of the Company's
Registration Statement on Form S-1 relating to its initial public offering and
continuing thereafter until terminated in accordance with paragraph 19 hereof.
<PAGE>
 
     5.   Participation.
          ------------- 

          (a) An eligible employee may become a participant in the Plan by
completing a subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions on the form
provided by the Company and filing it with the Company's payroll office not less
than 15 days prior to the applicable Offering Date, unless a later time for
filing the subscription agreement is set by the Board for all eligible
employees with respect to a given offering.

          (b) Payroll deductions for a participant shall commence with the first
payroll following the Offering Date, or the first payroll following the date of
valid filing of the subscription agreement, whichever is later, and shall end on
the Termination Date of the offering, unless sooner terminated by the
participant as provided in paragraph 10.

     6.   Payroll Deductions.
          ------------------ 

          (a) At the time a participant files his subscription agreement, he
shall elect to have payroll deductions made on each payday during the offering
period at a rate not exceeding ten percent (10%), or such other maximum rate
as may be determined from time to time by the Board, of the Compensation which
he would otherwise receive on such payday, provided that the aggregate of such
payroll deductions during the offering period shall not exceed ten percent
(10%), or such other maximum percentage as may be 
<PAGE>
 
determined from time to time by the Board, of the Compensation which he would
otherwise have received during said offering period.

          (b) All payroll deductions authorized by a participant shall be
credited to his account under the Plan.  A participant may not make any
additional payments into such account.

          (c) A participant may discontinue his participation in the Plan as
provided in paragraph 10, but may not decrease or increase the rate of his
payroll deductions during the offering period.

     7.   Grant of Option.
          --------------- 

          (a) On each Offering Date, each participant shall be granted an option
to purchase (at the option price) the number of full shares of the Company's
Common Stock arrived at by dividing such participant's total payroll deductions
accumulated during such offering period by the lower of (i) eighty-five percent
(85%) of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock at the
Offering Date, or (ii) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a
share of the Common Stock of the Company at the Termination Date, subject to the
limitations set forth in paragraphs 3(b) and 12 hereof.  The fair market value
of a share of the Company's Common Stock shall be determined as provided in
paragraph 7(b) herein.

          (b) The option price per share of such shares shall be the lower of:
(i) 85% of the fair market value of a share of the 
<PAGE>
 
Common Stock of the Company at the Offering Date; or (ii) 85% of the fair market
value of a share of the Common Stock of the Company at the Termination Date
unless: (a) the number of shares available for grant on the first day of the
offering period is less than the number of shares required to be issued for that
offering period, and (b) the fair market value of the Company's stock on the
date additional shares are authorized by the stockholders is higher than it was
on the first day of the offering period, in which case the offering price shall
be the lower of (i) 85% of the fair market value on the date additional shares
are authorized by the stockholders or (ii) 85% of the fair market value on the
last day of the offering period. The fair market value of the Company's Common
Stock on said dates shall be determined by the Company's Board of Directors,
based upon such factors as the Board determines relevant; provided, however,
that if there is a public market for the Common Stock, the fair market value of
a share of Common Stock on a given date shall be the reported bid price for the
Common Stock as of such date; or, in the event that the Common Stock is listed
on a stock exchange, the fair market value of a share of Common Stock shall be
the closing price on the exchange as of such date.

     8.   Exercise of Option.  Unless a participant withdraws from the Plan as
          ------------------                                                  
provided in paragraph 10, his option for the purchase of shares will be
exercised automatically at the Termination Date, 
<PAGE>
 
and the minimum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for
him at the applicable option price with the accumulated payroll deductions in
his account. During his lifetime, a participant's option to purchase shares
hereunder is exercisable only by him.

     9.   Delivery.  As promptly as practicable after the Termination Date of
          --------                                                            
each offering, the Company shall arrange the delivery to each participant, as
appropriate, of a certificate representing the shares purchased upon exercise of
his option.  Any cash remaining to the credit of a participant's account under
the Plan after a purchase by him of shares at the Termination Date of each
offering period shall be returned to said participant.

     10.  Withdrawal; Termination of Employment.
          ------------------------------------- 

          (a) A participant may withdraw all, but not less than all, the payroll
deductions credited to his account under the Plan at any time prior to the
Termination Date by giving written notice to the Company on a form provided for
such purpose.  All of the participant's payroll deductions credited to his
account will be paid to him as soon as practicable after receipt of his notice
of withdrawal, and his option for the current offering period will be
automatically cancelled, and no further payroll deductions for the purchase of
shares will be made during such offering period.

          (b) Upon termination of the participant's employment for any reason,
including retirement or death, the payroll deductions 
<PAGE>
 
accumulated in his account will be returned to him as soon as practicable after
such termination or, in the case of his death, to the person or persons entitled
thereto under paragraph 14, and his option will be automatically cancelled.

          (c) A participant's withdrawal from an offering will not have any
effect upon his eligibility to participate in a succeeding offering or in any
similar plan which may hereafter be adopted by the Company.

     11.  Interest.  No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions of a
          --------                                                           
participant in the Plan.

     12.  Stock.
          ----- 

          (a) The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock which
shall be reserved for sale under the Plan shall be 19,600,000 shares, subject
to further adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company as
provided in paragraph 18. The shares to be sold to participants in the Plan
may be, at the election of the Company, either treasury shares or shares
authorized but unissued. If the total number of shares which would otherwise
be subject to options granted pursuant to paragraph 7(a) hereof at the
Offering Date exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan
(after deduction of all shares for which options have been exercised or are
then outstanding), the Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares
remaining available for option grant in as uniform and equitable a manner as
is practicable. In such
<PAGE>
 
event, the Company shall give written notice of such reduction of the number of
shares subject to the option to each participant affected thereby and shall
return any excess funds accumulated in each participant's account as soon as
practicable after the termination date of such offering period.

          (b) The participant will have no interest or voting right in shares
covered by his option until such option has been exercised.

          (c) Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will be
registered in the name of the participant or in the name of the participant and
his spouse.

     13.  Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by the Board of
          --------------                                                 
Directors of the Company or a committee (the "Committee") appointed by the
Board.  The administration, interpretation or application of the Plan by the
Board or the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all
participants.  Members of the Board or the Committee who are eligible employees
are permitted to participate in the Plan, provided that:

          (a) Members of the Board who are eligible to participate in the Plan
may not vote on any matter affecting the administration of the Plan or the grant
of any option pursuant to the Plan.

          (b) No member of the Board who is eligible to participate in the Plan
may be counted in determining the existence of a 
<PAGE>
 
quorum at any meeting of the Board during which action is taken with respect to
the granting of options pursuant to the Plan.

          (c) If a Committee is established to administer the Plan, no member of
the Board who is eligible to participate in the Plan may be a member of the
Committee.

     14.  Designation of Beneficiary.
          -------------------------- 

          (a) A participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who
is to receive shares and/or cash, if any, from the participant's account under
the Plan in the event of such participant's death at a time when cash or
shares are held for his account.

          (b) Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the participant
at any time by written notice.  In the event of the death of a participant in
the absence of a valid designation of a beneficiary who is living at the time of
such participant's death, the Company shall deliver such shares and/or cash to
the executor or administrator of the estate of the participant; or if no such
executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company),
the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or cash to the
spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the participant; or if
no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company, then to such other
person as the Company may designate.
<PAGE>
 
     15.  Transferability.  Neither payroll deductions credited to a
          ---------------                                           
participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or
to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or
otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and
distribution, or as provided in paragraph 14 hereof) by the participant.  Any
such attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be
without effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to
withdraw funds in accordance with paragraph 10.

     16.  Use of Funds.  All payroll deductions received or held by the Company
          ------------                                                         
under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the
Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions.

     17.  Reports.  Individual accounts will be maintained for each participant
          -------                                                              
in the Plan.  Statements of account will be given to participating employees
semi-annually as soon as practicable following the Termination Date, which
statements will set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the per share
purchase price, the number of shares purchased and the remaining cash balance,
if any.

     18.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required
          ------------------------------------------                          
action by the shareholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock
covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised and the
number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under
the Plan but 
<PAGE>
 
have not yet been placed under option (collectively, the "Reserves"), as well as
the price per share of Common Stock covered by each option under the Plan which
has not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase
or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting from a
stock split or the payment of a stock dividend (but only on the Common Stock) or
any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of Common Stock effected
without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that
conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to
have been "effected without receipt of consideration". Such adjustment shall be
made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding
and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issue by the Company of
shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of
any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with
respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to option.

     The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole discretion,
also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the price per share
of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option, in the event that the
Company effects one or more reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights
offerings or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding Common
Stock, and in the 
<PAGE>
 
event of the Company being consolidated with or merged into any other
corporation.

     19.  Amendment or Termination.  The Board of Directors of the Company may
          ------------------------                                            
at any time terminate or amend the Plan.  No such termination will affect
options previously granted, nor may an amendment make any change in any option
theretofore granted which adversely affects the rights of any participant, nor
may an amendment be made without prior approval of the shareholders of the 
Company if such amendment would:

          (a) Increase the number of shares that may be issued under the Plan;

          (b) Materially modify the requirements as to eligibility for
participation in the Plan; or

          (c) Materially increase the benefits which may accrue to participants
under the Plan.

     20.  Notices.  All notices or other communications by a participant to the
          -------                                                              
Company in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when
received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person,
designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.

     21.  Shareholder Approval.  Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to
          --------------------                                              
approval by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding
shares of the Company present or represented and entitled to vote thereon,
which approval shall be:
<PAGE>
 
          (a) (1) solicited substantially in accordance with Section 14(a) of
the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Act") and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, or (2) solicited after the Company has furnished in
writing to the holders entitled to vote substantially the same information
concerning the Plan as that which would be required by the rules and regulations
in effect under Section 4(a) of the Act at the time such information is
furnished; and

          (b) obtained at or prior to the first annual meeting of shareholders
held subsequent to the first registration of Common Stock under Section 12 of
the Act.

               In the case of approval by written consent, the shares "present
or represented" shall mean all outstanding shares.

     22.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not be issued with
          ----------------------------------                                  
respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and
delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable
provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements
of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be
further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such
compliance.
<PAGE>
 
     As a condition to the exercise of an option and if required by applicable
securities laws, the Company may require the participant for whose account the
option is being exercised to represent and warrant at the time of any such
exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and without any
present intention to sell or distribute such shares if, in the opinion of
counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the 
aforementioned applicable provisions of law.
<PAGE>
 
                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                          EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
                          ----------------------------
                             SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT
                             ----------------------


______ Original Application
______ Change in Payroll Deduction Rate
______ Change of Beneficiary(ies)


1.   ___________________________________ hereby elects to participate in the
     SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") and subscribes
     to purchase shares of the Company Common Stock in accordance with this
     Agreement and the Plan.

2.   I hereby authorize payroll deductions from each paycheck in the amount of
     ______% of my base pay in accordance with the Plan.

3.   I understand that said payroll deductions shall be accumulated for the
     purchase of shares in accordance with the Plan, and that shares will be
     purchased for me automatically at the end of the offering period unless I
     withdraw from the Plan by giving written notice to the Company.

4.   I understand that prior to the delivery of any shares I will receive a copy
     of the Company's most recent prospectus which describes the Plan.  A copy
     of the complete "Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan" is on
     file with the Company.

5.   Shares purchased for me under the Plan should be issued in the name(s) of:
     _____________________________________________________________
     _____________________________________________________________
     _____________________________________________________________

6.   I understand that if I dispose of any shares received by me pursuant to the
     Plan within 2 years after the first day of the offering period during which
     I purchased such shares or within 1 year after the date on which such
     shares were delivered to me, I may be treated for federal income tax
     purposes as having received ordinary income at the time of such disposition
     in an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the shares at
     the time such shares were delivered to me over the option price paid for
     the shares.  I hereby agree to notify the Company in writing within 30 days
                  --------------------------------------------------------------
     after the date of any such disposition.  However, if I dispose of such
     --------------------------------------                                
     shares at any 
<PAGE>
 
     time after the expiration of the 2-year and 1-year holding periods, I
     understand that I will be treated for federal income tax purposes as
     having received income only at the time of such disposition, and that such
     income will be taxed as ordinary income only to the extent of an amount
     equal to the lesser of (1) the excess of the fair market value of the
     shares at the time of such disposition over the amount paid for the shares
     under the option, or (2) the excess of the fair market value of the shares
     over the option price, measured as if the option had been exercised on the
     first day of the offering period during which I purchased such shares. The
     remainder of the gain, if any, recognized on such disposition will be taxed
     at capital gains rates.

7.   I hereby agree to be bound by the terms of the Plan.  The effectiveness of
     this Subscription Agreement is dependent upon my eligibility to participate
     in the Plan.

8.   In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my
     beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due me under the Plan:


NAME:     (Please print) ________________________________________
                         First           Middle              Last

______________________   ________________________________________
Relationship

                         ________________________________________
                         Address


NAME:     (Please print) ________________________________________
                         First           Middle              Last

______________________   ________________________________________
Relationship

                         ________________________________________
                         Address

Date:     ____________________      _____________________________
                                    Signature of Employee

_________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________
<PAGE>
 
I do not wish to participate in the Employee Stock Purchase Plan.


Date: ___________________     _____________________________________
                              Signature of Employee
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.5
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>BUILDING AGREEMENT FOR LAND AT PRIVATE LOT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.5
 
                       JTC(L)3729/1379 Pt 1(2745)/KM/ZMY



               BUILDING AGREEMENT RELATING TO PRIVATE LOT A14547
               MUKIM NO. 18 ANG MO KIO AREA: 58,437 SQUARE METRES



                                 B E T W E E N


                  J U R 0 N G   T 0 W N  C 0 R P 0 R A T I 0 N


                                      AND


                        SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL
<PAGE>
 
                          BUILDING AGREEMENT FOR LAND
                          ---------------------------
                     AT PRIVATE LOT A14541 IN YIO CHU KANG
                     -------------------------------------
                                    (INLAND)


     THIS AGREEMENT is made the 30th day of May 1996 BETWEEN JURONG TOWN
CORPORATION a body corporate incorporated under the Jurong Town Corporation
Act and having its Head office at Jurong Town Hall, Jurong Town Hall Road,
Singapore (hereinafter called "the Owner" which expression shall include
                                  ---------
its successors-in-title and assigns) of the one part AND SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY
INTERNATIONAL a company incorporated in Cayman Islands and having its Singapore
registered office at


                      202 KALLANG BAHRU, SEAGATE BUILDING,
                                 SINGAPORE 1233


(hereinafter called "the Licensee" which expression shall include its
                     ------------
successors-in-title) of the other part.

     WHEREBY IT IS AGREED as follows :-

1    For the period of THIRTY (30) months from 30TH day of JANUARY 1995
(hereinafter referred to as "the date hereof") or for such further period as may
                             ---------------
be extended by the Owner the Licensee shall have the license and authority to
enter upon all that piece of land known as Private Lot A14547 FORMING PART OF
GOVERNMENT SURVEY LOTS 242, 8022, 9416, 9417, 9421 AND PART OF STATE RESERVE,
MUKIM NO. 18 ANG MO KIO and situated in the Republic of Singapore as shown on
the plan annexed hereto and estimated to contain an area of 58,437 square metres
more or less subject to survey (hereinafter called "the said land") for the
                                                    -------------
construction of factory building and other structures therein and for the
installation of equipment fixtures and fittings thereat for the purpose of THE
MANUFACTURE OF DATA STORAGE HARDWARE, SOFTWARE AND RELATED PRODUCTS ONLY in
accordance with the stipulations hereinafter contained and for no other purpose
whatsoever.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 2 -


2      The Licensee hereby agrees to perform and observe the following
stipulations :-


     (i)    To hold the said land until the same shall be comprised in a lease
            to be granted as hereinafter provided as licensee upon the same
            terms relating to the lease referred to in clause 2(ii) herein at
            the same rent and subject to the same covenants and stipulations so
            far as applicable as if a lease thereto has been actually granted
            and so that the owner shall have all the remedies by whatsoever
            means for rent in arrears that are incidental to the relationship of
            landlord and tenant but so that nothing herein contained shall be
            construed as creating a legal demise or any greater interest in the
            licence than a tenancy at will.

     (ii)   pay in advance as from the date hereof a licence fee calculated at
            the same rate and on the dates specified as for the rent reserved in
            the lease of the said land set out in the First Schedule hereto as
                                                  ------------------      
            if such lease has actually been granted.

     (iii)  To pay on the owner's behalf to the comptroller of Property Tax
            an amount equivalent to the sum payable by the owner as property tax
            in respect of the said land improvements and structures thereon
            during the said period or of such extended period (if any) permitted
            under clause 3(c) hereof by way of additional licence fee or for the
            period prior to the issue of the lease to be granted under clause 4
            herein.

     (iv)   To pay interest at the rate of 8.5% per annum or such higher rate as
            may be determined from time to time by the Owner in respect of any
            outstanding
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 3 -


            amount payable by the Licensee under this Agreement from the date
            such amount becomes due until payment in full is received by the
            owner.

     (v)    To pay to the Owner all survey fees and other charges including
            those payable to and claimed by the relevant Government Planning
            Authorities for the survey of the said land for the purpose of sub-
            division of the land of which the said land forms part and the
            preparation and issue of a Certificate of Title PROVIDED THAT the
            Owner shall have the right to employ his own surveyor to carry out
            the said survey in which event the Licensee shall bear all costs
            incurred.

     (vi)   At his own cost and expense -

            (a)   to engage a professional engineer to carry out soil
                  investigations to advise on the soil conditions and to design
                  structurally sound buildings proposed to be erected taking
                  into consideration the condition of the said land; and

            (b)   to execute such work as may be required to be done in respect
                  of the state and condition of the said land (especially its
                  ground levels, topography and soil conditions) which state and
                  condition the Licensee shall be deemed to have full knowledge.

     (vii)  Without prejudice to sub-clause (vi) above to submit within three
            (3) months from the date hereof firstly to the Owner for his
            approval and then to the relevant Government Planning and Building
            Authorities full and complete plans elevations and specifications of
            the buildings proposed to be erected on the said land in accordance
            in every way
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 4 -


            with the requirements under the Planning Act and the Local
            Government Integration Act PROVIDED THAT the Owner may give or
            refuse his approval at his absolute discretion.

    (viii)  At his own cost to commence erection on the said land either
            within six (6) months from the date hereof or within one (1) month
            from the date of approval of the plans by the relevant Government
            Building Authorities, whichever is the earlier, and in a substantial
            and workman-like manner with the best materials of their available
            kinds and in conformity in every respect with the plans, elevations,
            sections and specifications approved by the Owner and the relevant
            Government Building Authorities to finish the warehousing building,
            structures and other appurtenances including the installations of
            all equipment, fixtures and fittings so as to be completely fit for
            immediate occupation and operation within the said period of thirty
            (30) MONTHS from the date hereof PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT in the
            planning, erection, construction and completion of the said
            buildings, to develop to a gross plot ratio of not less than 1.6 and
            not more than 2.5 AND PROVIDED FURTHER THAT the Licensee shall not
            install or use any electrical installation, machine or apparatus
            that may cause or causes heavy power surge, high frequency voltage
            and current, air borne noise, vibration or any electrical or
            mechanical interference or disturbance whatsoever which may prevent
            or prevents in any way the service or use of any communication
            system or affects the operation of other equipment, installations,
            machinery, apparatus or plants of other Licensees.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 5 -


     (ix)   At his own cost to take such steps and execute such works upon the
            said land as may be necessary for the protection of shores and
            embankments if any and for the prevention of earth-slip erosion of
            soil and failure of slopes expeditiously in a workman-like manner
            and to the satisfaction of the Owner and other relevant governmental
            and statutory authorities.

     (x)    if the Licensee shall fail to complete the said buildings works and
            installations and to commence operations within the period specified
            in clause 2(viii) or within any extended period under clause 3(c)
            hereof the Licensee shall pay to the Owner a sum calculated at the
            rate of $50.00 per day as liquidated damages for the period during
            which the said buildings shall so remain or have remained
            incomplete.

     (xi)   To remove and replace any materials brought on the said land or used
            in any of the said buildings works and installations which the owner
            shall require to be removed as being inferior or unfit and to make
            good any workmanship which he shall consider imperfect and if the
            Licensee fails to remedy such defects the Owner may enter upon the
            said land and remedy such defects at the expense of the Licensee
            after expiry of fourteen (14) days' notice being given to the
            Licensee to do so.

     (xii)  Not to erect or build or permit or suffer to be erected or built
            any building, structure or installation other than those conforming
            with the plans elevations sections and specifications approved by
            the Owner and the relevant Government Building Authorities nor to
            make any alterations in the external elevation of any of the said
            buildings when erected without the prior consent in writing of the
            Owner.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 6 -


   (xiii)   In the erection and completion of the said buildings, structures
            and installations to do all acts and things required by and to
            perform the works in conformity with all respects with the
            provisions of any laws or regulations made thereunder and to pay and
            keep the Owner indemnified against all claims and other payments
            whatsoever which during the progress of the works may become payable
            in respect of the said works or of anything done under the authority
            herein contained and from time to time to discharge and pay all
            claims, assessments and outgoings now or at any time hereafter be
            chargeable against the Owner under any law or other-wise in regard
            to the said land, the said buildings or any structures or
            installations thereon.

    (xiv)   Not to do or permit or suffer to be done in or upon the said land
            or any part thereof anything which in the opinion of the owner may
            be or become a nuisance or annoyance or cause damage or
            inconvenience to the owner or to the Licensees or occupiers of any
            adjoining or neighbouring premises or whereby any insurance for the
            time being effected on the premises under sub-clause (xix) herein
            may be rendered void or voidable or be in any way affected.

     (xv)   Not to sell or dispose of any earth, clay, gravel or sand from the
            said land or permit or suffer any of the same to be removed except
            so far as shall be necessary for the execution of the said works
            PROVIDED nevertheless that the Licensee may use for the purpose of
            the said works any of the approved materials if so required.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 7 -


     (xvi)  Not without the prior consent in writing of the Owner to remove
            or permit or suffer to be removed until after completion of the said
            buildings in accordance with the provisions herein contained any
            building materials (other than inferior or unfit materials removed
            for the purpose of being replaced by proper materials) or plant
            which shall be brought upon the said land for the purpose of the
            said works.

    (xvii)  Not without the prior consent in writing of the Owner to affix or
            exhibit or erect or paint or permit or suffer to be affixed or
            exhibited or erected or painted on or upon any part of the exterior
            of the said land or of the external walls or rails or fences thereof
            any nameplate, signboard, placard, poster or other advertisement or
            hoarding.

   (xviii)  Not at any time to deposit or make up or manufacture or permit or
            suffer to be deposited made up or manufactured upon the said land
            any building or other materials except such as shall be actually
            required for the buildings to be erected on the said land in
            accordance with this Agreement and as soon as the buildings
            hereinbefore agreed to be erected shall be completed at his own
            expense to remove from the road or footpath adjoining the said land
            or the ground intended to be used for such road or footpath all
            building and other materials and waste whatsoever.

     (xix)  As soon as any of the said buildings shall have reached a height
            of five (5) feet above ground level to insure the same to the full
            value thereof in the joint names of the Owner and the Licensee
            against loss or damage by fire in some insurance office approved by
            the owner and shall increase such insurance proportionately as the
            said buildings approach completion and to keep the same so insured
            until a lease shall be granted as hereinafter provided and to pay
            all premiums thereof at least seven
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 8 -


            (7) days before the expiry date of such insurance policy and to
            produce to the owner or his agent without demand the policy or
            policies of such insurance and the receipt for each such payment and
            in the event the said buildings or any part thereof are destroyed or
            damaged by fire then to forthwith give to the Owner written notice
            of such destruction or damage and to forthwith cause all monies
            received by virtue of any such insurance to be forthwith laid out in
            rebuilding and reinstating the buildings to the satisfaction of the
            Owner and to make up any deficiency thereof out of his own monies,
            but the rebuilding and reinstatement shall in any event commence and
            be completed within the period specified by the Owner PROVIDED
            ALWAYS THAT if the Licensee shall at any time fail to keep the
            premises insured as aforesaid the owner may without being under any
            obligation to do so do all things necessary to effect or maintain
            such insurance and any monies expended by him for that purpose shall
            be repayable by the Licensee on demand and be recovered forthwith
            from the Licensee as a debt.

     (xx)   Not to assign sublet grant a licence or part with or share his
            interest under this Agreement, or the possession or occupation of
            the said land, or any part thereof EXCEPT THAT, subject to the
            Owner's prior written consent, which consent shall not be
            unreasonably withheld, the Licensee may mortgage his interest under
            this Agreement by way of assignment to secure the repayment of such
            sum or sums as the Licensee may require for the purpose of erecting
            or completing the building or other structure to be built on the
            said land in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement
            PROVIDED THAT the Licensee shall thereafter continue to be liable
            for the observance and performance of the several stipulations
            herein contained until the grant of the lease as hereinafter
            provided.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 9 -


     (xxi)  Not to permit or suffer any person to occupy reside or make use
            of any building erected on the said land before a Temporary
            Occupation Permit or a Certificate of Statutory Completion issued by
            or except with the permission of the relevant Governmental and
            Statutory authority.

    (xxii)  To make reasonable provision against and be responsible for all
            loss, injury and damage to any person, (including loss of life) or
            property including that of the Owner for which the Licensee may be
            held liable arising out of or in connection with the occupation and
            use of the said land and the structures erected thereon and to
            indemnify the Owner against all proceedings, claims, costs and
            expenses which he may incur or for which he may be held liable as a
            result of any act, neglect or default of the Licensee his servants,
            contractors, or agents or their respective servants.

   (xxiii)  To make good and sufficient provision for the safe and efficient
            disposal of all waste including but not limited to pollutants
            generated at the said land to the requirements and satisfaction of
            the Owner and other relevant Governmental and Statutory authorities
            PROVIDED THAT in the event of any default by the Licensee under this
            covenant the Owner may carry out such remedial measures as he thinks
            necessary and costs and expenses incurred thereby shall be
            recoverable forthwith from the Licensee as a debt.

    (xxiv)  Subject always to clause 2(xx) hereinbefore appearing, to give to
            the Owner written notice of every change of name within one month
            from the date of each change.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 10 -



     (xxv)  To construct an internal drainage system to the satisfaction of
            the Owner to ensure that all surface water collected is discharged
            into the public drains and will not flow into adjoining properties.

    (xxvi)  To construct and complete a permanent culvert within nine (9)
            months from the date hereof or any extension thereof as may be
            approved by the owner and in connection thereof to submit plans to
            and to obtain the prior approval in writing of the Owner for the
            construction of a temporary crossing.

   (xxvii)  Within one (1) month of the completion of the permanent culvert
            mentioned in sub-clause (xxvi) above to remove the temporary
            crossing and to reinstate any roads, roadside kerbs, drains, turfing
            or the like damaged by the Licensee, his servants, contractors, sub-
            contractors, or agents or their respective servants to the
            satisfaction of the owner and the relevant Governmental and
            Statutory authorities.

  (xxviii)  Within one (1) month of the completion of the construction of the
            said buildings and related civil works to reinstate any damage
            caused to the roads, roadside kerbs, drains, turfing and the said
            permanent culvert by the Licensee his servants contractors or agents
            or their respective agents to the satisfaction of the Owner and the
            relevant Governmental and Statutory authorities,

    (xxix)  To place with the Owner a deposit of $5,000.00 which shall be
            forfeited in the event of any breach of any of the provisions in
            sub-clauses (xxvi), (xxvii) and (xxviii) herein without prejudice to
            the rights and remedies of the owner contained in this Agreement and
            the Lease.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 11 -


     (xxx)  At his own cost to plant and maintain trees and landscape the
            said land in accordance with all the requirements of the Parks and
            Recreation Department, Ministry of National Development and other
            relevant Governmental and Statutory authorities.

    (xxxi)  At his own cost to execute such work as may be necessary to
            divert existing utility services such as pipes, cables and the like
            (if any) to the requirements and satisfaction of the Owner and other
            relevant Governmental and Statutory authorities.

   (xxxii)  If the Licensee shall at any time be found to have encroached
            upon any area beyond the allocated boundaries of the said land, the
            Licensee shall at his own cost and expense, but without prejudice to
            any other right or remedy the Owner may have against him,
            immediately or within the time specified (if any) by the Owner
            rectify and remove the encroachment to the satisfaction of the Owner
            and pay to the Owner such compensation as may be specified by the
            Owner.  If, however, the owner in his absolute discretion permits
            the Licensee to regularise and retain the encroached area or any
            part thereof upon such terms and conditions as may be stipulated by
            the owner and any other relevant Governmental and Statutory
            authorities, the Licensee shall pay licence fee on the encroached
            area with retrospective effect from the date hereof, and the
            Licensee shall also pay all survey fees, amalgamation fees, legal
            fees (including solicitor and client costs and expense), and all
            other costs and charges relating thereto.

  (xxxiii)  If any damage of whatsoever nature or description shall at any
            time occur or be caused to the said land or any building or
            structure or installation thereon, or any part thereof, to forthwith
            give to the Owner written notice of the damage and to remedy the
            damage to the satisfaction of the Owner within such time as the
            Owner may specify, all at the cost of the Licensee.

   (xxxiv)  Not to keep or allow to be kept any livestock or other animals on
            the said land or any part thereof.

    (xxxv)  The licence fees and other taxable sums payable by the Licensee
            under or in connection with the Licence herein shall be exclusive of
            the goods and services tax (hereinafter called "tax") chargeable by
            any government, statutory or tax authority calculated by reference
            to the amount of the licence fees and any other taxable sums
            received or receivable by the Owner from the Licensee and which tax
            is payable by the Licensee.  The Licensee shall pay the tax and the
            owner acting as the collecting agent for the government, statutory
            or
<PAGE>
 
                                    - 11A -


            tax authority shall collect tax from the Licensee together with
            the licence fees hereinbefore reserved without any deduction and in
            advance without demand on the 1st day of each of the months of
            January, April, July and October, and in the manner and within the
            period prescribed in accordance with the applicable laws and
            regulations.

   (xxxvi)  At all times and at his own cost and expense, to comply with and
            observe any height restriction on buildings and structures at the
            said land which may be imposed by any governmental or statutory
            authority and to ensure that the maximum height for all buildings
            and structures on the said land shall not exceed 70 metres AMSL.

  (xxxvii)  At the Licensee's own cost to construct aesthetically designed
            high-quality buildings, with extensive landscaping to the
            satisfaction of the owner in accordance with Clause 4 hereof.  The
            building facade shall front Ang Mo Kio Avenue 5 and the external
            walls of the buildings shall be either aluminum-clad or tiled or of
            equivalent standard of materials.

 (xxxviii)  Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 2(xii) and 2(xiii)
            hereinbefore appearing, the Licencee shall not place, construct or
            erect or permit the placing, construction or erection of any
            building, structure or equipment whatsoever on the 6.0 metre and
            10.0 metre wide buffers situated within the boundary of the said
            land as shown on the plan annexed hereto.

   (xxxix)  The Licensee accepts that as infrastructure development, which
            shall include a permanent road, public sewer, water pipes and street
            lighting for the whole of Yio Chu Kang area of which the said land
            forms only a part, is being carried out by the owner and is
            targetted for completion on or about November 1995 at the earliest,
            the Licensee shall meanwhile at his own cost make temporary
            arrangements with the relevant governmental and statutory
            authorities to obtain public utilities for the Licensee's own needs.

      (xl)  The Licensee accepts the said land with full knowledge that the
            proposed permanent road and service road shown on the said plan
            annexed hereto have yet to be constructed and further accepts and
            agrees at all times to permit the Owner, its contractors, sub-
            contractors, and their workmen to enter upon the said land facing
            the said proposed permanent road for purposes of a working area to
            carry out and complete the said infrastructure development.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 12 -


     (xli)  The Licensee has to liaise with the Owners contractors before
            placing the temporary crossing to the said land along the proposed
            road and at his own costs to shift its position from time to time so
            as not to impede the Owner's infrastructure development programme.

    (xlii)  The Owner shall not be liable to the Licensee or any other person
            for any claim, demand, action, proceeding, inconvenience, damage,
            loss, costs whatsoever that may arise in respect of or in connection
            with Clauses 2(xxxix) to 2(xli) above.

   (xliii)  To ensure that the maximum height of any boundary wall or chain link
            fence (including the anti-climb) erected by the Licensee at the said
            land shall not exceed two (2) metres,

3    It is hereby mutually agreed that until the Licensee has performed all his
obligations herein contained the owner shall possess the rights and powers
following :-

     a)   The right for himself and his agents with or without workmen or others
          at all reasonable times to enter upon the said land to view the state
          and progress of the said buildings and works and to inspect and test
          the materials and workmanship in connection therewith and for any
          other reasonable purpose including the construction and installation
          of sewers drains pipes and cables on or leading from any adjoining or
          neighbouring land of the Owner as may be required by the Owner.

     b)   Full right and liberty in case any of the said buildings and other
          structures or installations hereby agreed to be erected be not
          completed and fit for immediate occupation within the period
          hereinbefore limited (time in this respect shall be of the essence of
          the contract) and in accordance in every way with the stipulations
          hereinbefore contained or in case the Licensee shall in any other way
          fail to perform and observe any of the stipulations on his part herein
          contained or if any charging order writ of seizure and sale or its
          equivalent made in respect of the said land or any structure thereon
          shall be enforced without the written consent of the Owner having
          first been obtained by the Licensee or by the person in whose favour
          the charging order writ of seizure and sale or its equivalent shall
          have been made, to re-enter upon and take possession of the said land
          and all buildings structures fixtures plant material and effects
          whatsoever thereon with power to hold and dispose thereof as if this
          Agreement had not been entered into and without making to the Licensee
          any compensation or allowance for the same and this Agreement shall
          thereupon determine but without prejudice to any right of action or
          other remedy of the owner for the recovery of any licence fee or
          monies due to him from the Licensee or in respect of any breach of
          this Agreement PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT if the said
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 13 -


          land has been assigned by way of mortgage the provisions of this
          clause shall not take effect until the Owner has served upon the
          mortgagee notice in writing specifying the breach and the mortgagee
          has failed to remedy such breach.


     (c)  PROVIDED nevertheless that notwithstanding any such default as
          aforesaid in completing the said buildings and works the owner may in
          his discretion give notice in writing to the Licensee of his intention
          not to enforce the stipulations herein contained and may fix any
          extended period for the completion of the said works in substitution
          for the said period of two (2) years hereby fixed for such completion
          and thereupon the obligations hereunder of the Licensee to complete
          the said works and to accept a lease hereinafter mentioned shall be
          taken to refer to such substituted period.

     (d)  Without prejudice to the generality of clause 3(b) hereof full right
          and liberty in the event that the Licensee has failed to either :-

          (1)  develop the said land to the gross plot ratio specified in clause
               2(viii), or
          (2)  fulfil the investment criterion as stipulated in Clause 4

          with full and absolute discretion to the owner to either :

          (i)  re-enter upon and take possession of the said land or any part
               thereof and all buildings, structures, fixtures, plant, material
               and effects whatsoever thereon with power to hold and dispose
               thereof as if this Agreement had not been entered into and
               without making to the Licensee any compensation or allowance for
               the same and this Agreement shall thereupon determine but without
               prejudice to any right of action or other remedy of the Owner or
               recovery of any licence fee or monies due to him from the
               Licensee or in respect of any breach of this Agreement, or
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 14 -


          (ii) reduce the term of lease proportionately as the actual amount
               invested bears with the required fixed investment on the said
               land as stipulated in clause 4 in which event the Licensee shall
               execute such documents as the Owner shall deem necessary and in
               connection therewith, pay all costs disbursements fees and
               charges legal or otherwise as provided in clause 5.

          PROVIDED ALWAYS that if the said land has been assigned by way of
          mortgage, the provisions of this sub-clause (d) shall not take effect
          until the Owner had served upon the Mortgagee notice in writing
          specifying the breach and the Mortgagee has failed to remedy such
          breach.

3A   Without prejudice to Clauses 2(vi) and 2(ix) hereinbefore appearing, the
Licensee shall execute and complete site preparation and slope protection works
on the said land (hereinafter referred to as the "THE LAND PREPARATION WORKS")
in accordance with the requirements and subject to the approval and satisfaction
of the Owner by the 30th day of SEPTEMBER 1996, Upon submission of due proof to
the satisfaction of the owner on or before the 30TH day of DECEMBER 1996 that
the Licensee has duly completed the land preparation works in accordance with
this clause and that the Licensee has expended monies for the land preparation
works, the Owner shall offset the Licensee's aforesaid expenditure by offsetting
the same against the licence fees due on the 30TH day of JANUARY 1997 up to a
maximum of DOLLARS ONE MILLION AND FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND ONLY ($1,500,000/-).
Nothing in this clause shall be construed as or deemed to construe that the
Owner shall offset or compensate the Licensee for work done or monies expended
for the land preparation works in addition to or of better standard than that
required by the Owner.

3B   The owner shall offset the Licensee's expenditure on the provision of the
cables to supply electricity to the Licensee (hereinafter referred to as
"ELECTRICITY EXPENDITURE") by offsetting the same against the licence fees due
on the 30th day of JANUARY 1997 up to a maximum of DOLLARS EIGHT HUNDRED AND
SIXTY -ONE THOUSAND FOUR HUNDRED AND THIRTY-SEVEN ONLY ($861,437.08cts) upon
submission of due proof to the satisfaction of the Owner of the electricity
expenditure on or before the 30th day of DECEMBER 1996,

4    If the said buildings and works shall have been completely finished to the
satisfaction of the Owner and the relevant Government Building Authorities (to
be evidenced by their certificates in writing to that effect) within the said
period of THIRTY (30) MONTHS or of such extended period (if any) as aforesaid
and if the Licensee shall have performed and observed all the stipulations
herein on his part contained other than such as may have been waived as
aforesaid AND IF THE LICENSEE'S INVESTMENT SHALL HAVE BEEN THE MINIMUM SUM OF
$1000/- PER SQUARE METRE OF THE GROSS FLOOR AREA OF THE BUILDING(S) ON BUILDING
AND CIVIL WORKS OF WHICH AT LEAST 1.5% OF THE BUILDING AND CIVIL WORKS COST, UP
TO A MAXIMUM OF $300,000/- MUST BE ON LANDSCAPING AND THE MINIMUM SUM OF $500/-
PER SQUARE METRE OF THE SAID LAND ON PLANT AND MACHINERY WITHIN THIRTY (30)
MONTHS
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 15 -


FROM THE 30TH DAY OF JANUARY 1995 (DUE PROOF OF SUCH INVESTMENT SHALL BE
PRODUCED TO THE SATISFACTION OF THE OWNER ON OR BEFORE THE 30TH DAY OF JUNE
1998) then the owner shall grant and the Licensee shall accept and execute a
counter-part of one good and sufficient lease or sub-lease of the said land and
premises together with the buildings so erected thereon with their appurtenances
for the term of THIRTY-TWO (32) YEARS from the 30TH DAY OF JANUARY 1995 at the
rent and in the form containing the reservation exceptions covenants conditions
and provisions set forth in the FIRST SCHEDULE hereto with such
                                --------------

modifications as circumstances may render necessary and such other covenants
conditions or stipulations to be performed by the Licensee governing or
regulating the use of the said land as the owner thinks fit with a view to
preserving the value thereof or protecting the interests of the licensees or
occupiers of land or premises adjacent to the said land from any dangerous or
obnoxious or otherwise harmful activities which may be carried out by the
Licensee whether or not such activities are incidental to the Licensee's trade
PROVIDED THAT until such lease is executed the Licensee shall be deemed to be
the Lessee of the said land as though a lease has been executed at the same rent
and subject to the covenants and conditions contained in the First Schedule
                                          --------------
hereto so far as the same are applicable.

5    The Licensee shall pay all costs disbursements fees and charges legal or
otherwise including stamp and registration fees in connection with the
preparation stamping and issue of this Agreement and the Lease herein agreed to
be granted and any prior accompanying or future documents or deeds supplementary
collateral or in any way relating to this Agreement and the lease.

6    The Licensee shall pay all costs and fees legal or otherwise, including the
owner's costs as between solicitor and client, in connection with the
enforcement of the covenants and conditions of this Agreement and the lease.

7    The Licensee may, at any time during the said period of THIRTY (30) MONTHS
and any extensions thereof' granted under clause 3(c) and subject to the prior
written consent and the conditions of consent of the owner, terminate this
Agreement or surrender part of the said land PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT such
termination or surrender shall be without prejudice to any right or remedy of
the owner which may have accrued prior to such termination or surrender AND
PROVIDED FURTHER THAT the Licensee shall in addition to the licence fee (which
at the discretion of the Owner may be apportioned for the period commencing from
the date hereof up to the date of delivery of vacant possession of the said land
or part thereof to the Owner) survey fees, property tax and other charges
specified herein pay to the Owner as liquidated damages a sum made up of firstly
an amount equivalent to three (3) months' licence fee, secondly an amount
equivalent to one (1) additional year's property tax and thirdly an amount of
$500/- being administrative costs or such other sum as may be determined from
time to time by the Owner, AND PROVIDED FURTHER THAT before the delivery of
vacant possession as aforesaid if the Owner shall so desire the Licensee shall
at the cost and expense of the Licensee render the said land or part thereof as
the case may be to its original state and condition.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 16 -


     IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have hereunto set their respective
hands or seals the day and year first above written.

SIGNED on behalf of                   )
                                      )
THE JURONG TOWN CORPORATION           )
                                      )
By : SWEE KEE SIONG                   )
     Deputy Chief Executive           )
     Officer                          )
                                      )
                                      )
in the presence of :-                 )



                  ............................................



The Common Seal of                    )
                                      )
                                      )
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY  INTERNATIONAL     )
                                      )
                                      )
was hereunto affixed                  )
                                      )
in the presence of :-                 )



                    Signature:/s/ Signature Illegible
                    Name:
                    Designation:



                    Signature:/s/ Signature Illegible
                    Name:
                    Designation:


BA(Co Ltd)
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 17 -


     I,
an Advocate and solicitor of the Supreme Court of Singapore hereby certify that
on the          day of                19         the Common Seal of SEAGATE
TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL was duly affixed to the within written instrument at
Singapore in my presence in accordance with the regulations of the said Company
which regulations have been produced and shown to me.


Witness my hand this         day of               19



                                                     .......................
                                                     Advocate and Solicitor,
                                                            Singapore



BA(Co Ltd)
<PAGE>
 
                      THE FIRST SCHEDULE ABOVE REFERRED TO



                                                        L           1  Ver 1



                              THE LAND TITLES ACT



                                     LEASE


DESCRIPTION OF LAND
- -------------------


CT/SSCT/SCT                                   Property Address
               MK      TS     Lot No.         Whole or part (if part lot, to
Vol  Fol                                      state appd new lot/strata lot)

               18                             (Private Lot A14547)



LESSOR
- ------

     Name:                         JURONG TOWN CORPORATION
     Address:                 a body corporate incorporated under
                              Jurong Town Corporation Act and having
                              its office at Jurong Town Hall, 301
                              Jurong Town Hall Road, Singapore 2260.

(the registered proprietor)   HEREBY LEASES the registered estate or interest in
the land to

LESSEE
- ------


     I/D/Co Regn NO:

     Name:          SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL

     Address:       a company Incorporated in Cayman islands
                    and having its Singapore registered office at
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 2 -


FOR TERM OF LEASE
- -----------------


Term of Lease:      THIRTY-TWO (32) YEARS
Commencement date:  30TH DAY OF JANUARY 1995


Consideration :

the minimum investment by the Lessee of $1,000/- per square metre of the gross
building floor area on building and civil works of which at least 1.5% of the
building and civil works cost, up to a maximum of $300,000/must be on
landscaping and $500/- per square metre of the demised promises on plant and
machinery (hereinafter referred to as "the fixed investment criteria") and
YIELDING and PAYING therefor during the said term rent in the manner and at the
times set out as follows:-

     (a)  Dollars Five hundred thousand ($500,000/-) only on the 27th day of
          January 1995;

     (b)  Dollars Twelve million Eight hundred and Forty thousand ($12,840,000/-
          ) only on the 30th day of January 1997 or immediately upon the
          issuance by the Building Authority of the Temporary Occupation Permit
          in respect of any building structure or installation on the demised
          premises (hereinafter referred to as "TOP") whichever is earlier;

     (c)  Dollars Thirteen million Three hundred and Forty thousand
          ($13,340,000/-) only on the 30th day of January 1998 or one (1) year
          from the date of TOP whichever is earlier;

     (d)  Dollars Thirteen million Three hundred and Forty thousand
          ($13,340,000/-) only on the 30th day of January 1999 or two (2) years
          from the date of TOP whichever is earlier;

     (e)  Dollars Thirteen million Three hundred and Forty thousand
          ($13,340,000/-) only on the 10th day of January 2006 or nine (9) years
          from the date of TOP whichever is earlier; and

     (f)  Dollars Thirteen million Three hundred and Forty thousand
          ($13,340,000/-) only on the 30th day of January 2012 or fifteen (15)
          years from the date of TOP whichever is earlier

     (hereinafter collectively referred to as "the Initial Rent").

     AND RESERVING to the Lessor as APPURTENANT TO

DESCRIPTION OF LAND
- -------------------

CT/SSCT/SCT            Lot    Property Address
            MK    TS   No.    whole or part (if part lot, to
Volume Folio                  state appd new lot/strata lot)
            18
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 3 -


               a RIGHT OF PASSAGE AND RUNNING of water soil electricity power
               gas telephone communication and other similar amenities from the
               adjoining and neighbouring premises thereon through sewers drains
               pipes channel cables and ducts upon or under the land hereinafter
               described and to make connections with such sewers drains pipes
               channels cables and ducts or any of them for the purpose of
               exercising the said right of passage and of running the aforesaid
               amenities over the land hereinafter described.



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
<S>                 <C>            <C>     <C>  <C>   <C> 
DESCRIPTION         CT/SSCT/SCT                  Lot  Property Address
OF LAND                             MK     TS    No.  Whole or part (if part
(Reservation        Volume Folio                      lot, to state appd new
of right of                                           lot/strata lot)
passage and
running of                          18
amenities
over land
hereby
transferred)
</TABLE> 




               SUBJECT TO:



PRIOR                           PRIOR ENCUMBRANCE
ENCUMBRANCES                    -----------------


                                      NIL
<PAGE>
 
                                      - 4-


AND the following  :-

                    COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
                    ------------------------

          (a)       the covenants, conditions and powers implied by law in
                    instruments of lease (or to such of them as are not
                    hereinafter expressly negatived or modified);

          (b)       the covenants and conditions set forth in the Memorandum of
                    Lease filed in the Registry of Titles and numbered as ML
                    I/30809F with the exception of covenants 1(x), 1(xi) and
                    1(xxv) of ML I/30809F.

                    SPECIAL COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
                    --------------------------------

1         (x)       As often as any building or structure on the demised
                    premises or any part thereof shall be destroyed or damaged
                    as aforesaid forthwith to give to the Lessor written notice
                    of such destruction or damage and forthwith to cause all
                    monies received by virtue of such insurance to be laid out
                    in rebuilding and reinstating the same to the satisfaction
                    of the Lessor and in accordance with the plans and
                    specifications approved by the Lessor and in accordance with
                    the laws, bye-laws regulations and planning schemes of every
                    relevant governmental and statutory authority prevailing at
                    the time, and in case the monies so received shall be
                    insufficient for that purpose then to make up the deficiency
                    out of his own monies PROVIDED THAT the rebuilding and
                    reinstatement shall in any event commence and be completed
                    within the period specified by the Lessor.

          (xi)      Not to charge, mortgage, create a trust, demise, assign or
                    transfer the demised premises in whole or in part without
                    first obtaining the consent of the Lessor in writing
                    PROVIDED ALWAYS that any demise, assignment or transfer of
                    the demised premises by the Lessee shall be permitted during
                    the initial lease term of 32 years PROVIDED THAT:

                    (a)  such demise, assignment or transfer shall be for an
                         industrial use acceptable to the Lessor;

                    (b)  any consent, clearance or approval, if required, of any
                         Governmental or Statutory authorities shall be obtained
                         by the Lessee prior to such demise, assignment or
                         transfer;
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 4A -


                    (c)  the sale price received for such demise assignment or
                         transfer shall be approved by the Lessor (hereinafter
                         referred to as "the Consideration");

                    (d)  the Lessor and Lessee shall share equally the
                         appreciation in value of the demised premises;

                    (e)  the appreciation in the value of the demised premises
                         shall be determined always by the Consideration LESS
                         the cost incurred by the Lessee for the construction of
                         the building and other structures on the demised
                         premises (hereinafter referred to as "the Cost of
                         Building"); and

                    (f)  the Cost of Building shall INCLUDE the cost of any
                         improvements made up to the time of such demise,
                         assignment or transfer and shall EXCLUDE any investment
                         on plant and machinery,

                    SUBJECT ALWAYS to due proof of the Cost of Building being
                    produced to the satisfaction of the Lessor.

                    Any consent, if granted by the Lessor shall be given on such
                    terms and conditions as the Lessor shall impose and shall
                    include:-

                    (a)  payment of such administrative fee as may be determined
                         by the Lessor; and

                    (b)  absolute discretion on the part of the Lessor to
                         require the Lessee to meet the fixed investment
                         criteria and to show due proof thereof within such
                         period of time as the Lessor may stipulate, and in the
                         event of the non-observance thereof, the Lessor shall
                         be entitled to exercise its rights under clause 3(c)
                         herein.  For the avoidance of any doubt, the words
                         "meet" in this clause shall include the maintenance of
                         the fixed investment criteria and if it has not been
                         maintained then that it be met.

                    The restrictions contained in Section 17 of the Conveyancing
                    and Law of Property Act (cap. 61) shall not apply.

             (xxv)  Subject always to Clause 1(xi) herein, to give to the Lessor
                    written notice of every change of name within one month from
                    the date of each change.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 4B -


          (xxxvi)   Not to use or permit or suffer the demised premises or any
                    part thereof to be used otherwise than for the MANUFACTURE
                    OF DATA STORAGE HARDWARE, SOFTWARE AND RELATED PRODUCTS ONLY
                    except with the prior consent in writing of the Lessor.  In
                    giving its consent, the Lessor may in its absolute
                    discretion require, inter alia, the Lessee to meet the fixed
                    investment criteria and to show due proof within such period
                    of time as the Lessor may stipulate, and in the event of the
                    non-observant thereof, the Lessor shall be entitled to
                    exercise its rights under clause 3(c) of ML I/30809F.  For
                    the avoidance of any doubt, the words "meet" in this clause
                    and "met" in clause (xi) shall include the maintenance of
                    the fixed investment criteria and if it has not been
                    maintained then that it be met.

         (xxxvii)   Without prejudice to clause 1(viii) of ML I/30809F to ensure
                    that the gross plot ratio shall not be less than 1.6 and not
                    more than 2.5.

        (xxxviii)   Not to keep or allow to be kept any livestock or other
                    animals at the demised premises or any part thereof.

          (xxxix)   At the Lessee's own cost and expense and subject to the
                    Lessor's prior written approval, to execute such works as
                    may be deemed necessary by the Lessee in respect of the
                    state and condition of the demised premises (especially its
                    ground levels, topography and soil conditions) which state
                    and condition the Lessee shall be deemed to have full
                    knowledge.

             (xl)   Without prejudice to the generality of clauses 1(iii) and
                    1(vii) in ML I/30809F, the rent and other taxable sums
                    payable by the Lessee under or in connection with this lease
                    shall be exclusive of the goods and services tax
                    (hereinafter called "tax") chargeable by any government,
                    statutory or tax authority calculated by reference to the
                    amount of rent and any other taxable sums received or
                    receivable by the Lessor from the Lessee and which tax is
                    payable by the Lessee.  The Lessee shall pay the tax and the
                    Lessor acting as the collecting agent for the government,
                    statutory or tax authority shall collect the tax from the
                    Lessee together with the rent hereinbefore reserved without
                    deduction and in advance without demand on the 1st day of
                    each of the months of January, April, July and October, and
                    in the manner and within the period prescribed in accordance
                    with the applicable laws and regulations.
<PAGE>
                                     -4C-
 

            (xli)   At all times and at his own cost and expense, to comply with
                    and observe any height restriction on buildings and
                    structures at the demised premises which may be imposed by
                    any governmental or statutory authority and to ensure that
                    the maximum height for any building and structures on the
                    demised premises shall not exceed 70 metres AMSL.

           (xlii)   Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 1(vii) of ML
                    I/30809F, the Lessee shall not place, construct or erect or
                    permit the placing, construction or erection of any
                    building, structure or equipment whatsoever on the 6.0 metre
                    and 10.0 metre buffers situated within the boundary of the
                    demised premises shown on the plan annexed hereto.

          (xliii)   To ensure that the maximum height of any boundary wall or
                    chain link fence (including the anti-climb) erected by the
                    Lessee at the demised premises shall not exceed two (2)
                    metres.

           (xliv)   Without prejudice to the generality of Clause 1(iv) of ML
                    I/30809F and at the Lessee's own cost, to maintain and
                    upkeep aesthetically designed high-quality buildings (with
                    extensive landscaping) and the external walls of the
                    building(s), which external walls shall be either aluminium
                    clad or tiled or of equivalent standard of materials, all to
                    the approval of and the satisfaction of the Lessor.

            (xlv)   At the termination, by expiry or otherwise, of the term
                    hereby created, to yield up the demised premises to the
                    Lessor in tenantable repair in accordance with the Lessee's
                    covenants herein contained PROVIDED THAT the Lessee shall
                    carry out such decontamination works to and upon the demised
                    premises as may be required by the relevant Governmental and
                    Statutory authorities and if the Lessee shall fail to
                    observe or perform this covenant the Lessor shall execute
                    such works and/or recover the costs thereof from the Lessee
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 4D -


                    as a debt together with all rent, tax and other amounts
                    which the Lessor would have been entitled to receive from
                    the Lessee had the period within which such works are
                    effected by the Lessor been added to the said term.


           (xlvi)   Not to let, sublet, underlet or grant a licence or part with
                    or share the possession or occupation of the demised
                    premises in whole or in part, (hereinafter referred to as
                    "such letting") without first obtaining the consent of the
                    Lessor in writing PROVIDED ALWAYS that such letting, by the
                    Lessee shall be permitted:-

                    (a)  PROVIDED THAT such letting shall be for an industrial
                         use acceptable to the Lessor;

                    (b)  PROVIDED FURTHER that any consent, clearance or
                         approval, if required, of any Governmental or Statutory
                         Authorities shall be obtained by the Lessee prior to
                         such letting; and

                    (c)  SUBJECT ALWAYS to the payment of 10% of the total
                         rental, fees or consideration received by the Lessee
                         for such letting, to the Lessor.

                    Any consent, if granted by the Lessor shall be given on such
                    terms and conditions as the Lessor shall impose and shall
                    provide for the payment of such administrative fee and other
                    sums as may be determined by the Lessor,

                    The restrictions contained in Section 17 of the Conveyancing
                    and Law of Property Act (Cap. 61) shall not apply.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 5 -


2A   The Lessor further covenants with the Lessee that he shall grant to the
Lessee a lease of the demised premises for a further term of THIRTY (30) YEARS
(hereinafter referred to as "the further term") from the expiry of the said term
upon the same terms and conditions and containing like covenants as are
contained in this lease - with the EXCEPTION of the present covenant for renewal
PROVIDED THAT:

      (i) the Lessee shall have made a minimum investment of $1,000/- per square
          metre of the gross building floor area on building and civil works of
          which at least 1.5% of the building and civil works cost, up to a
          maximum of $300,000/- must be on landscaping and $500/- per square
          metre of the demised premises on plant and machinery, (also referred
          to as "the fixed investment criteria") within THIRTY (30) months from
          the 30TH day of JANUARY 1995 and due proof of such investment is
          produced to the satisfaction of the Lessor on or before the 31ST day
          of JUNE 1998;

     (ii) Subject to clause 1(viii) of ML I/30809F, there shall be a gross plot
          ratio of not less than 1.6 and not more than 2.5;

    (iii) at the time due proof of such investment is produced and at the
          expiry of the said term, there be no existing breach or non-observant
          of any of the covenants and conditions herein contained on the part of
          the Lessee to be observed or performed;

     (iv) the rental payable for the further term shall be as set out hereunder;

          (a)  the yearly rent for the further term shall be at the rate based
               on the market rent at the commencement of the further term
               (hereinafter referred to as "the Second Initial Rent") which rate
               shall however be subject to a revision on the 30TH DAY OF JANUARY
               2028 to a rate based on the market rent on the date of such
               revision determined in the manner following but so that the
               increase shall not exceed 7.6% of the Second Initial Rent;

          (b)  the yearly rent so revised on the 30TH day of JANUARY 2028 shall
               be subject to revision on the 30TH day of JANUARY of every year
               thereafter at the rate based on the market rent on the respective
               dates determined in the manner following but so that the increase
               shall not exceed 7.6% of the annual rent for each immediately
               preceding year;
<PAGE>
 
                                      - 6-


          (c)  the yearly rent for the further term shall be payable by equal
               quarterly instalments without any deductions and in advance
               without demand on the 1st day of each of the months of January,
               April, July and October in every year of the further term at the
               office of the Lessor or at such other office as the Lessor may
               designate the 1st of such payments to be made on or before the
               commencement of the further term;

          (d)  for the purposes of (a) and (b) above, the market rent shall mean
               the rent per square metre per annum of the demised premises
               excluding the buildings and other structures erected thereon and
               shall be determined by the Lessor on or about the dates mentioned
               (and payable retrospectively with effect from the dates mentioned
               if determined after the dates mentioned) and the decision of the
               Lessor shall be final;

     (v)  if required by the Lessor, the Lessee shall within four (4) months
          from the commencement of the further term and at his own cost and
          expense, carry out and complete such improvements to the landscaping
          at the demises premises as may be stipulated in writing by the Lessor;

    (vi)  the Lessee shall six (6) months before the expiry of the said term
          submit, for the approval of the Lessor and the relevant governmental
          and statutory authorities, plans for the upgrading of the exterior of
          buildings on the demised premises to the same highest quality of new
          buildings which the Lessor will be building at that time, and the
          Lessee shall expeditiously do all acts and things necessary to obtain
          the approval, all the cost and expense of the Lessee; and

   (vii)  the Lessee shall at his own cost and expense complete within
          eighteen (18) months from the commencement of the further term, the
          upgrading of the buildings in accordance with the plans approved by
          the Lessor and the relevant governmental and statutory authorities and
          to the satisfaction of the Lessor.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 7 -


3    This Lease shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of Singapore
and any  legal proceedings, actions or claims arising from or in connection with
this Lease herein shall be commenced in and heard before the courts of Singapore
and the Lessee agrees to submit itself to the jurisdiction of the courts of
Singapore.

5    For avoidance of any doubt, it is hereby agreed and declared that the
Initial Rent shall not be repaid or refunded, nor shall the Lessor be liable to
repay or refund the Initial Rent, in part or in whole to the Lessee or any other
person in the event that the Lessor exercises his right of re-entry under clause
3(c) of ML I/30809F nor in any other event or under any circumstances
whatsoever.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 8 -


                DATE OF LEASE __________________________
                             


EXECUTION       THE COMMON SEAL OF                     )
BY LESSOR                                              )
                JURONG TOWN CORPORATION                )
                                                       )
                was hereunto affixed in                )
                                                       )
                the presence of  :-                    )



                                             .......................
                                             CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER



                                             .......................
                                                    SECRETARY



EXECUTION   THE COMMON SEAL OF                         )
BY LESSEE                                              )
                                                       )
            was hereunto affixed in                    )
                                                       )
            the presence of  :-                        )



     Signature   :......................................
     Name        :
     Designation :


     Signature   :......................................
     Name        :
     Designation :



     I,
     a duly authorised officer of the Jurong Town Corporation, under Section 31
     of the Jurong Town Corporation Act (Cap 150) for and on behalf of the
     Lessor hereby certify that this instrument is correct for the purposes of
     the Land Titles Act.



     I,
     the Solicitor of the Lessee hereby certify that this instrument is correct
     for the purposes of the Land Titles Act.

Lease (Co Ltd)
<PAGE>
 
                      BELOW THIS LINE FOR OFFICE USE ONLY



Special Remarks                          Endorsing Instruction

                                         First Schedule:

 
                                         Second Schedule:



EXAMINED                                        REGISTERED ON



                                         Initials of
                                         Signing
                                         Officer


Date :                                                  REGISTRAR OF TITLES
                                                        -------------------
<PAGE>
 
                                                                     ML I/30809P



                                                                 OFFICE USE ONLY



                              THE LAND TITLES ACT

                                 (CHAPTER 157)



                              M E M 0 R A N D U M
                              -------------------



To the Registrar of Titles


On behalf of THE JURONG TOWN CORPORATION, a body corporate incorporated under
the Jurong  own Corporation Act and having its office at Jurong Town Hall,
Jurong Town Hall Road, Singapore, the Registered proprietor.



I, GLORIA ONG SIEW CHOO, certify that this memorandum (comprising seven pages),
contains the provisions which are deemed to be incorporated in any instrument in
which the above mentioned corporation is named as a lessor and such instrument
has reference to this memorandum.



                                                            Signature
                                                            Authorised Officer



                                                Filed in the REGISTRY OF TITLES
LODGED BY
                                                      ON 26TH JUNE,     1990
Jurong Town Corporation
Jurong Town Hall
Jurong Town Hall Road
Singapore 2260
                                                         REGISTRAR OF TITLES
<PAGE>
 
                        SPECIAL COVENANTS AND CONDITIONS
                        --------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
1    The Lessee hereby covenants with the Lessor as follows

      (i)   To pay the yearly rent hereinbefore reserved on the days and in the
            manner appearing in the reddendum.

     (ii)   To pay unto the Lessor on demand by way of additional rent a sum
            equal to all such sums as the Lessor may from time to time pay for
            insuring and keeping insured the demised premises against loss or
            damage by fire in case the Lessee shall make default in insuring and
            keeping insured the demised premises pursuant to the covenant in
            that behalf hereinafter contained PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT nothing
            herein shall render it obligatory on the part of the Lessor to
            insure and keep insured the demised premises or any part thereof.

    (iii)   To pay all rates taxes assessments and outgoings whatsoever which
            now are or which at any time hereafter during the said term may be
            imposed or charged upon or in respect of the demised premises or any
            part thereof.

     (iv)   To repair and keep in tenantable repair the demised premises and
            every part thereof throughout the said term.

      (v)   To pay a reasonable proportion of the expense of constructing
            repairing rebuilding and cleansing all party walls fences sewers
            drains pipes water-courses and other things the use of which is
            common to the demised premises and the occupiers of any adjoining or
            neighbouring premises and such proportion in the case of a dispute
            shall be conclusively determined by the Lessor's surveyor for the
            time being.

     (vi)   To permit the Lessor and his surveyors or agents with or without
            workmen or others during the said term at reasonable times in the
            day-time to enter upon the demised premises and every part thereof
            to examine the state and condition of the same and of defects decays
            and wants of reparations and of all breaches of covenant there found
            and the Lessor may thereupon serve on the Lessee notice in writing
            by leaving the same at or on the demised premises to or for the
            Lessee to make good the same within such reasonable time as
            specified in such notice.

    (vii)   To perform and observe all the obligations which the Lessor of the
            demised premises may be liable to perform or observe during the term
            hereby created by any direction or requirement of any governmental
            or statutory authority and if the Lessee shall fail to observe or
            perform this covenant the Lessor may in its absolute discretion
            perform the same and all expenses and costs incurred thereby shall
            be recoverable from the Lessee as a debt PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT the
            Lessor shall not be liable to the Lessee for any loss damage or
            inconvenience caused thereby.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 2 -


   (viii)   Not to make or cause to be made any addition or alteration affecting
            the elevation external structure or stability of the demised
            premises or any part thereof without the prior written consent of
            the Lessor and the relevant governmental and statutory authorities
            PROVIDED THAT on the granting of such consent and without prejudice
            to other terms and conditions which may be imposed the Lessee shall
            give to the Lessor security that the proposed addition alteration or
            rebuilding will in fact be carried out within a reasonable time.

     (ix)   Forthwith to insure and keep insured the demised premises against
            loss or damage by fire to the full value thereof with a well
            established insurance company approved by the Lessor and to make all
            payments necessary for that purpose within seven days after the same
            shall become payable and upon reasonable notice to produce to the
            Lessor the policy or policies of such insurance and the receipts for
            all such payments.

      (x)   As often as the demised premises or any part thereof shall be
            destroyed or damaged as aforesaid forthwith to cause all monies
            received by virtue of such insurance to be laid out in rebuilding
            and reinstating the same in accordance with the plans and
            specifications approved by the Lessor and in accordance with the
            existing laws, bye-laws, regulations and planning schemes of every
            relevant governmental and statutory authority prevailing at the
            time, and in case the monies so received shall be insufficient for
            that purpose then to make up the deficiency out of his own monies
            PROVIDED THAT the rebuilding and reinstatement shall in any event
            commence and be completed within the period specified by the Lessor.

     (xi)   Not to demise assign mortgage let sublet or underlet or grant a
            licence or part with or share the possession or occupation of the
            demised premises in whole or in part without first obtaining the
            consent of the Lessor in writing.  The restrictions contained in
            Section 17 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act (Chapter 61)
            shall not apply.  In addition, the Lessor may in its absolute
            discretion in giving the consent require, inter alia, that the fixed
            investment criteria be met and due proof thereof be shown within
            such period of time as the Lessor may stipulate and in the event of
            the non-observance thereof, the Lessor shall be entitled to exercise
            its rights under Clause 3(c) herein.

    (xii)   Within six months of the devolution of the interest of the Lessee
            not perfected by an assent to give notice thereof in writing with
            particulars thereof to the Lessor and produce to the Lessor such
            documentary evidence as may be required by the Lessor.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 3 -



    (xiii)  Not to use the demised premises or any part thereof for any illegal
            or immoral purpose and not to do or permit or suffer to be done upon
            the demised premises anything which in the opinion of the Lessor may
            be or become a nuisance annoyance or cause damage or inconvenience
            to the Lessor or his lessees or the occupiers of any adjoining or
            neighbouring premises or whereby any insurance for the time being
            effected on the demised premises may be rendered void or voidable or
            be in any way affected.

     (xiv)  Not without the prior consent in writing of the Lessor to affix or
            exhibit or erect or paint or permit or suffer to be affixed or
            exhibited or erected or painted on or upon any part of the exterior
            of the demised premises or of the external rails or fences thereof
            any nameplate signboard placard poster or other advertisement or
            hoarding,

      (xv)  To make reasonable provision against and be responsible for all loss
            injury or damage to any person or property including that of the
            Lessor for which the Lessee may be held liable arising out of or in
            connection with the occupation and use of the demised premises and
            to indemnify the Lessor against all proceedings claims costs and
            expenses which he may incur or for which he may be held liable as a
            result of any act neglect or default of the Lessee his servants
            contractors sub-contractors or agents.

     (xvi)  To pay interest at the rate of 8.5% per annum or such higher rate as
            may be determined from time to time by the Lessor in respect of any
            arrears of rent or other outstanding sums due and payable under this
            Lease from the due dates thereof until payment in full is received
            by the Lessor.

    (xvii)  At the termination, by expiry or otherwise, of the term hereby
            created, to yield up the demised premises to the Lessor in
            tenantable repair in accordance with the Lessee's covenants herein
            contained PROVIDED THAT, if so required by the Lessor and upon
            notice thereof, the Lessee shall remove the fixtures and fittings,
            or any part thereof, as may be specified by the Lessor and reinstate
            the demised premises to the satisfaction of the Lessor and if the
            Lessee shall fail to observe or perform this covenant the Lessor
            shall execute such works and recover the costs thereof from the
            Lessee as a debt.

   (xviii)  To make good and sufficient provision for the safe and efficient
            disposal of all waste including but not limited to pollutants to the
            requirements and satisfaction of the Lessor PROVIDED THAT in the
            event of default by the Lessee under this covenant the Lessor may
            carry out such remedial measures as he thinks necessary and all
            costs and expenses incurred thereby shall forthwith be recoverable
            from the Lessee as a debt.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 4 -


     (xix)  Not to do or omit or suffer to be done or omitted any act matter
            or thing in or on the demised premises in respect of the operations
            business, trade or industry carried out or conducted therein which
            shall contravene the provisions of any laws, bye-laws, orders, rules
            or regulations now or hereafter affecting the same but at his own
            cost and expense to comply with all such provisions and at all times
            hereafter to indemnify and keep indemnified the Lessor against all
            actions, proceedings, costs, expenses, claims, fines, losses,
            penalties and demands in respect of any act matter or thing done or
            omitted to be done in contravention of the said provisions.

      (xx)  To pay all costs disbursements fees and charges legal or otherwise
            including stamp and registration fees in connection with the
            preparation stamping and issue of this Lease and any prior
            accompanying or future documents or deeds supplementary collateral
            or in any way relating to this Lease.

     (xxi)  To pay all costs and fees legal or otherwise including costs as
            between solicitor and client in connection with the enforcement of
            the covenants and conditions herein.

    (xxii)  To pay to the Lessor all survey fees and other charges including
            those payable to and claimed by the relevant Government Planning
            Authorities and other relevant governmental and statutory
            authorities for the survey of the demised premises for the purpose
            of sub-division of the land of which the demised premises forms part
            and issue of this Lease and a Certificate of Title PROVIDED THAT the
            Lessor shall have the right to employ his own surveyor to carry out
            the said survey in which event the Lessee shall bear all costs
            thereby incurred.

   (xxiii)  At his own cost to take such steps and execute such works upon
            the demised premises as may be necessary for the protection of
            shores and embankments if any and for the prevention of earthslip
            erosion of soil and failure of slopes expeditiously in a workmanlike
            manner and to the satisfaction of the Lessor.

    (xxiv)  To construct an internal drainage system within the demised
            premises to the satisfaction of the Lessor to ensure that all
            surface water collected thereon is discharged into the public
            drains.

      (xv)  Not to effect a change of name except with the prior consent in
            writing of the Lessor PROVIDED THAT on every change of name the
            Lessee shall pay to the Lessor a fee to be specified by the Lessor
            in relation to such consent.

    (xxvi)  To perform and observe the covenants on the Lessor's part
            contained in the Head Lease made between the President of the
            Republic of Singapore and the Lessor so far as they are not varied
            herein and to keep the Lessor indemnified against all claims damages
            costs and expenses in any way relating thereto.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 5 -


   (xxvii)  To maintain the demised premises and every part thereof in a neat
            and tidy condition, and forthwith to comply with the Lessor's
            direction to remove and clear any materials, goods or articles of
            whatever nature and description from the demised premises or such
            part thereof as may be stipulated in writing by the Lessor.

  (xxviii)  At his own cost to plant and maintain trees and landscape the
            demised premises in accordance with all the requirements of the
            Parks and Recreation Department, Ministry of National Development
            and other relevant governmental and statutory authorities.

    (xxix)  Not to install or use any electrical installation, machine or
            apparatus that may cause or causes heavy power surge, high frequency
            voltage and current, air borne noise, vibration or any electrical or
            mechanical interference or disturbance whatsoever which may prevent
            or prevents in any way the service or use of any communication
            system or affects the operation of other equipment, installations,
            machinery, apparatus or plants of other Lessees in connection
            therewith, to allow the Lessor or any authorised person to inspect
            at all reasonable times, such installation, machine or apparatus in
            the demised premises to determine the source of the interference or
            disturbance and thereupon, to take suitable measures, at the
            Lessee's own expense, to eliminate or reduce such interference or
            disturbance to the Lessor's satisfaction, if it is found by the
            Lessor or such authorised person that the Lessee's electrical
            installation, machine or apparatus is causing or contributing to the
            said interference or disturbance.

     (xxx)  To indemnify the Lessor against each and every claim, proceeding,
            action, loss, penalty, damage, expense, cost and demand which may
            arise in connection with clause (xxix) above.

    (xxxi)  At the Lessee's own cost to execute such works as may be
            necessary to divert existing utility services such am pipes, cables
            and the like (if any) to the requirements and satisfaction of the
            Lessor and other relevant governmental and statutory authorities.

   (xxxii)  Subject to that clause in the Special Covenants and Conditions of
            this Lease which stipulates the specific use the Lessor permits for
            the demised premises, the Lessee shall use and shall ensure that at
            least sixty per centum (60%) of the total floor area of the demised
            premises shall be used for purely industrial activities, and may use
            the remaining floor area for ancillary stores and offices, neutral
            areas, communal facilities and such other uses as may be approved in
            writing by the Lessor and the relevant governmental and statutory
            authorities PROVIDED THAT the said ancillary offices shall not
            exceed twenty-five per centum (25%) of the total floor area AND
            PROVIDED FURTHER THAT the Lessee shall not use and occupy the
            demised premises for the purpose of commercial office and storage
            unrelated to the Lessee's approved industrial activity.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 6 -


 (xxxiii)   If the Lessee shall at any time be found to have encroached upon
            any area beyond the boundaries of the demised premises, the Lessee
            shall at his own cost and expenses, but without prejudice to any
            other right or remedy the Lessor may have against him, immediately
            or within the time specified (if any) by the Lessor rectify and
            remove the encroachment to the satisfaction of the Lessor and pay to
            the Lessor such compensation as may be specified by the Lessor.  If,
            however, the Lessor in his absolute discretion permits the Lessee to
            regularise and retain the encroached area or any part thereof upon
            such terms and conditions as may be stipulated by the Lessor and any
            other relevant governmental and statutory authorities, the Lessee
            shall pay land rent on the encroached area with retrospective effect
            from the date of commencement of the term hereby created, and the
            Lessee shall also pay all survey fees, amalgamation fees, legal fees
            (including solicitor and client costs and expense), and all other
            costs and charges relating thereto.

  (xxxiv)   If any damage of whatsoever nature or description shall at any
            time occur or be caused to the demised premises or any part thereof,
            to forthwith give to the Lessor written notice of the damage and to
            remedy the damage to the satisfaction of the Lessor within such time
            as the Lessor may specify, all at the cost of the Lessee.

   (xxxv)   Not to keep or permit to be used or stored in the demised
            premises or any part thereof any materials of a dangerous or
            explosive nature without the prior consent in writing of the Lessor
            and to keep the Lessor indemnified against all damages claims and
            action caused by the use of storage of such materials whether or not
            the same is done with the consent of the Lessor.


2    The Lessor hereby covenants with the Lessee that the Lessee paying the rent
hereinbefore reserved and performing and observing the covenants conditions and
agreements on the part of the Lessee hereinbefore contained shall peaceably hold
and enjoy the demised premises during the term hereby granted without any
interruption of or by the Lessor or any person lawfully claiming through under
or in trust for him.

3    PROVIDED ALWAYS and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows :-

     (a)  That no estate or interest in the soil of the road and footpath
          adjacent to the demised premises is or shall be deemed to be included
          in the demise hereinbefore contained.

     (b)  That the Lessee shall not be entitled to any right of access of light
          or air to the demised premises or any part thereof, which would
          restrict or interfere with the user of any adjoining or neighbouring
          land for building or any other purpose.
<PAGE>
 
                                     - 7 -


     (c)  That if the said rent hereby reserved or any part thereof shall be
          unpaid for fourteen days after becoming payable (whether the same
          shall have been formally demanded or not) or if any of the covenants
          or obligations on the part of the Lessee herein contained shall not be
          performed or observed or if any charging order made in respect of the
          demised premises shall be enforced by sale or by entry into possession
          without the written consent of the Lessor having first been obtained
          (Section 17 of the Conveyancing and Law of Property Act shall also not
          apply in such event) by the Lessee or by the person in whose favour
          the charging order shall have been made, then and in any such case it
          shall be lawful for the Lessor or any person or persons authorised by
          him in that behalf at any time thereafter to re-enter upon the demised
          premises or any part thereof in the name of the whole and thereupon
          the term hereby created shall absolutely determine but without
          prejudice to any right of action or remedy of the Lessor in respect of
          any breach of any of the covenants or conditions by the Lessee herein
          contained PROVIDED THAT if the demised premises have been assigned by
          way of mortgage the provisions of this clause shall not take effect
          until the Lessor has served upon the mortgagee a notice in writing
          that such breach has occurred and the mortgagee has failed to remedy
          such breach.

4      In this Lease where the context so requires or permits, words importing
the singular number or the masculine gender include the plural number or the
feminine gender and words importing persons include corporation and vice versa,
the expression "the Lessor" shall include its successors-in-title and assigns,
the expression "the Lessee" shall include its successors-in-title and permitted
assigns (if any), where there are two or more persons included in the expression
"the Lessee" covenants expressed to be made by "the Lessee" shall be deemed to
be made by such persons jointly and severally, and except where otherwise
provided the expression "the demised premises" shall mean the land hereby
demised and all buildings, structures, fixtures and fittings therein.
<PAGE>
 
                      BELOW THIS LINE FOR OFFICE USE ONLY



Special Remarks                                    Endorsing Instruction

                                                   First schedule:

                                                   Second Schedule:



EXAMINED                                                REGISTERED ON



                                              Initials of
                                              Signing
                                              Officer


Date:                                                      REGISTRAR OF TITLES
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>LEASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.6


                                LEASE AGREEMENT


                                    between


                          Universal Appliances Limited


                                      and


                     Seagate Technology (Thailand) Limited



                           Effective on July 18, 1994



                   Chandler and Thong-Ek Law Offices Limited
                          7th Floor, Bubhajit Building
                             20 North Sathorn Road
                                 Bangkok 10500
                                    Thailand



                         Tel: (662) 266-6485 thru 6510
                            Fax: (662) 266-6483 - 4
<PAGE>
 
                                LEASE AGREEMENT

THIS LEASE is made by and between UNIVERSAL APPLIANCES LIMITED, represented by
Mr. John C. K. Sham, the authorized director, having its office at 889 Thai CC
Tower, 18th Floor Room No. 183, South Sathorn Road, Yanawa, Sathorn, Bangkok
10120 (hereinafter referred to as "the Lessor") as party of the one part and
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY (Thailand) limited represented by Mr. Pornchai Piemsomboon
and Mrs. Jirapannee Supratya, the authorized directors, having its office at
1627 Moo 7, Teparuk Road, Tumbol Teparuk, Amphur Muang, Samutprakarn
(hereinafter referred to as "the Lessee") as party of the other part.

Both parties hereby agree as follow:

1.   PREMISES:

The Lessor hereby agrees to lease aid the Lessee hereby agrees to take on lease
of a building evidenced by a house registration No. 73 Moo 5, Bangna-Trad
Highway Km. 36, Tambol Bangsamak, Amphur Bangpakong, Cha Choeng Soa province;
and part of the land evidenced by the title deed (Chanod) No. 13234 for the area
of 8 rai, - ngan and 50 square wah and including the facilities built thereon
and roadway (hereinafter referred to as the "Premises"), details of which is
attached as Schedule 1.

2.   PURPOSE OF THE LEASE:

The Lessee takes the lease of the Premises for their purpose of furthering its
business of assembly of disc drives and its related subassemblies.  Lessee shall
not make use of the Premises for any unlawful business or purpose.

3.   LEASE TERM:

3.1  This Lease shall be for a period of 6 (six) years effective from July 18,
     1994 ("Effective Date").  It may be renewed in accordance with Clause 10,
     Renewal of Lease.  The Lease Term of this lease shall be from the July 18,
     19941 to the expiration date of July 17, 2000, both days inclusive.

3.2  The parties agree to enter into the Registered Lease Agreement in the form
     attached hereto in Schedule 2 which shall be registered within 30 (thirty)
     days from the Effective Date or such later dates as may be mutually agreed
     upon.  Registration fees and stamp duties in connection with registration
     of the Lease Agreement shall be paid by the Lessee.

4.   RENT:

4.1  On the Effective Date, the Lessee agrees to pay one month rent in advance
     for the amount of Baht 1,206,000 (One Million Two Hundred and Six Thousand
     Baht only) to the Lessor. This amount shall be deemed as the rent paid for
     the last month of the Lease Term or any renewal term thereof.
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               2

4.2  Within the 5th day of the succeeding calendar months, (the first rental is
     payable within the 5th day of September 1994), the Lessee agrees to pay
     monthly rent to the Lessor at the rate of Baht 1,206,400 (One Million Two
     Hundred and Six Thousand Baht only).

4.3  The parties agree that rent shall be adjusted after the first three years
     of the Lease Term and next 3 year term period of the total 6 year Lease
     Term and any renewal term thereof.  The adjustment of rent shall be based
     the Lessor and the Lessee.

     For the purpose of this Clause, "Fair Market Rental Rate" means the amount
     at which the Premises (without addition renovation or alteration made by
     the Lessee) would be leased between a willing lessor and a willing lessee,
     neither being under compulsion, both parties having reasonable knowledge of
     all relevant facts and with equity to both, and taking into consideration
     that the lessee shall be responsible for all repairs, as determined by
     appraisers acceptable to both the Lessor and the Lessee or as provided for
     herein.

5.   DEPOSIT:

The Lessee agrees to make a deposit as performance guarantee of the Lease with
the Lessor on the Effective Date of this lease in the sum of 3,618,000 (Baht
Three Million Six Hundred Eighteen Thousand, the equivalent of 3 (three) months
rent, which payment is made to Lessor as directed in writing by the Lessor.

Subject to Clauses 9.2 and 9.4, this deposit shall be returned to the Lessee by
the Lessor within 7 days from the date on which a notice of returning the
Premises is properly given to the Lessor after the Lessee has fully complied
with this Lease and has returned the Premises to the Lessor in good condition
without causing any damage to the Lessor and the Premises and not owing any rent
or other expenses relating to the Premises.  If it appears that the Lessee is in
breach of any part of this Lease and such breach is not remedied within the
period prescribed, the Lessor shall have the right to forfeit all of the
deposit.

The deposit shall not bear interest and shall not be set off for the rent.

6.   LESSEE UNDERTAKINGS:

Throughout the Lease Term and/or throughout the period the Lessee occupies the
Premises, the Lessee undertakes:

6.1  To pay rent strictly within 5 (Five) days of the due date.  If the rent is
     not paid within such time and the Lessor does not terminate this Lease, the
     Lessee agrees to pay a fine in the sum equal to 2 (two) percent per month
     of the rent overdue.

6.2  To strictly observe all rules and regulations published or to be published
     and informed to the Lessee by the Lessor as well as by Wellgrow Industrial
     Estate. Copies of the current rules and regulations published by the Lessor
     and Wellgrow Industrial Estate are attached as Schedule 3.
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               3


6.3  To use the Premises for lawful business operation only.

6.4  Not to use nor allow any other person to use the Premises as residence or
     for sleeping purpose for whatever period of time, except as may be required
     for security with prior written consent of the Lessor.

6.5  Not to cause disturbance or annoyance to other tenants or neighbors.

6.6  Not to affix any advertisement or any signs or any materials whether
     electric, wire, or aerial within the Premises without prior written consent
     of the Lessor except the name of the Lessee.

6.7  To repair and maintain the Premises, including systems and equipment in
     good condition and clean at all times at the cost and expense of the
     Lessee.

6.8  To allow the Lessor or his representative(s) to enter and inspect the
     Premises during normal office hours, upon reasonable prior notice given to
     the Lessee.

6.9  Within 90 (ninety) days before the expiration of the Lease, to allow the
     Lessor or his representative(s) with any prospective tenants to enter and
     inspect the Premises at all reasonable times upon reasonable prior notice
     given to the Lessee.

6.10 Not to keep flammable (except for IPA) or illegal material on the Premises.
     The Lessee shall not cook any food on the Premises, except in the canteen
     area.  The Lessee shall not cause or permit its business to be used to
     generate, manufacture, refine, store, handle, produce or process hazardous
     substances, dangerous or toxic substances or solid waste, except other than
     as outlined in the product and process instruction and approved by the
     Wellgrow Industrial Estate Authority of Thailand.

6.11 To alter or renovate the Premises suitable for the Lessee's purpose at his
     own cost and expenses.

     Before any alteration or renovation or any facility expansion shall be
     made, the Lessee shall first obtain written consent from the Lessor, which
     shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Any request properly given by the
     Lessee to the Lessor, of which the Lessee has not received any reply in
     writing within 7 days, shall be deemed that the Lessor approves according
     to such request.

     All movable properties, i.e. air pipes, electrical wires, telephone wires
     and water pipes and systems relating to such properties, used in the
     alteration or renovation which are affixed firmly to the Premises shall,
     immediately after the expiration of the Lease Term or any renewal thereof,
     become the property of the Lessor.  The Lessee agrees that the Lessee will
     use of the vacant land which is not under the Premises but is covered under
     the title deed as referred to in Clause 1 (the "Additional Utilized Area")
     as carpark and recreation area without any charge, but if the Lessee wishes
     to use it for other purposes such as construction of any concrete or
     asphalt structure, the Lessee will have to pay an additional monthly rent
     on all utilized area or all usable area, whichever, is the greater amount,
     of such construction on the Additional
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               4


     Utilized Area at the rate of Baht 55 (Fifty-Five Baht Only) per square
     meter.  Such additional lease or use of all the Additional Utilized Area
     shall be subject to the same terms and conditions herein.

     The Lessor agrees that all other movable properties, e.g. machinery,
     equipment and accessories brought onto or installed by the Lessee shall be
     at all times the Lessee's properties.

6.12 To be responsible for loss or damage to the Lessee's property.

6.13 The Lessee shall have the right to sublease all or any portion of the
     Premises to any persons of its choice subject to obtaining the prior
     consent of the Lessor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld,
     and subject to the terms and conditions of this Lease.  The Lessor shall
     cooperate in the registration of any sublease of registering such sublease.
     The cost shall be borne by the Lessee or its sub-lessee

     In the special case that the Lessee decides to remove its business from the
     Premises because the Premises are not suitable for its use due to a
     condition in the land not apparent before registration of the Registered
     Lease Agreement, the Lessor hereby consents to either an assignment or a
     sublease of this Lease to a third party of the Lessee's choice in order to
     allow the Lessee to recover a portion of its investment in the Premises.

6.14 To pay for the electricity used and recorded by the meter fixed thereto at
     the rate directly charged by supplier.  All payments shall be made directly
     to supplier.

6.15 To pay for all the water used and recorded by the meter fixed thereto at
     the rate charged by supplier.  All payments shall be made directly to
     supplier.

6.16 To pay the Telephone Organization of Thailand ("TOT") for the telephone
     charges at the rate charged by the TOT.

6.17 To pay any applicable fees charged onto the Premises by Wellgrow Industrial
     Estate.

7.   LESSOR'S UNDERTAKINGS AND REPRESENTATIONS:

Throughout the period that the Lessee has fully complied with this Lease, the
Lessor undertakes and represents that:

7.1  The Lessor has full title to the Premises free and clear to all
     encumbrances, charges, liens, squatters or other claims including but not
     limited to suits or notices with respect to violations of any laws or
     regulations (save for any applicable land and house tax due and payable
     before the Effective Date of this Lease which shall be solely responsible
     by the Lessor. Any land and house taxes due and payable after the Effective
     Date hereof until the expiration of this Lease or any renewal term thereof,
     shall be reimbursed by the Lessee).
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               5


     Subject to Clause 13, the Lessor agrees not to sell, assign, dispose of,
     transfer, mortgage or otherwise encumber the Premises or any future or
     contingent interest in the Premises during the period of this Lease unless
     with a prior written approval of the Lessee, In the case where the Lessee
     agrees that the Lessor may sell the Premises the Lessor agrees that this
     Lease shall not be extinguished by the transfer of ownership of the
     Premises, if any.  The Lessor shall cause the transferee to assume rights
     and liabilities of the Lessor under this Lease towards the Lessee.

     The Lessor has the rights and its legal and corporate authorities to lease
     the Premises to the Lessee for the Lease Term and any renewal period
     prescribed within.

7.2  The Lessor shall give the Lessee immediate notice in writing of any
     proposals of the taking over of the Premises or any portion thereof by
     governmental action of condemnation, nationalization, expropriation,
     confiscation or otherwise.

7.3  That the Lessee shall enjoy using the Premises without interference from
     the Lessor or any other person.

7.4  The Lessor shall have no duty to maintain or repair any building systems
     including, but not limited to all facilities and HVAC.

7.5  On the Effective Date of this Lease, the Lessor shall enter into a service
     agreement with the Lessee for a provision of certain services in connection
     with the Premises.  Both parties agree to arrange in due course of time for
     the transfer of utility services received from any governmental agencies to
     be under the Lessee's name who shall be responsible for providing
     performance guarantees required under the relevant laws.  The Lessee agrees
     to retransfer such utility services to be under the Lessor's name after the
     Lease Term or any renewal term thereof.

7.6  Subject to the provision under Clause 6.11, The Lessor agrees that the
     Lessee may utilize or have the priority right to lease the Additional
     Utilized Area as allowed thereunder.  The Lessor shall not lease or dispose
     of or create any liens or encumbrances on such Additional Utilized Area
     throughout the term of this Lease and any renewal period thereof.  The
     parties agree that said Additional Utilized Area shall be subject further
     to Clause 13.

8.   TERMINATION:

This Lease shall be terminated if any of the following events occurs:

8.1  The Premises is destroyed, in whole or in part, and the Lessor decides not
     to restore the Premises to the previous condition or the Lessee determines
     that the Premises are no longer serving the purpose for which the Lessee
     entered into this Lease.

8.2  In the event the Lessee is in default or violation of any provision hereof,
     the Lessor may, at its option, give to the Lessee 30 (thirty) days written
     notice thereof; and if such default or violation has not been cured or made
     good within the said 30 (thirty)
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               6


     days, the Lessor may forthwith terminate the Lease and demand or claim
     against the Lessee for any amount outstanding including any and all damages
     whatsoever.

8.3  The Lessee shall have the right upon six (6) months prior written notice
     after the expiration of this Lease, and without payment of penalty or
     premium, to terminate this Lease.

8.4  After the expiration of the Lease Term, the Lessor shall have the right
     upon 6 (six) months prior written notice to terminate this Lease if the
     Lessor decides to sell the Premises to a third party and the Lessee, after
     it has been offered under Clause 13, refuses to purchase the Premises.

9.   RETURN OF THE PREMISES AND DEPOSIT:

9.1  At the end of this Lease, whether by termination, by expiration or by any
     other reason other that Clauses 7.2, 8. 1, or force majeure, the Lessee
     shall return the Premises to the Lessor in good condition, wear and tear
     excepted.

9.2  If, at the time this Lease ends and within 1 month thereafter, the Premises
     are not in the required condition in the reasonable determination of the
     Lessor, then the Lessor shall notify the Lessee of the deficiency in the
     condition of the Premises and the cost of correcting that deficiency.  The
     Lessee shall then be permitted, at its option, to correct the deficiencies
     in the condition of the Premises; provided, however, that such corrective
     action must be completed within 60 (sixty) days following the Lessee's
     receipt of the Lessor's notice of deficiency.  If the Lessee does not
     correct the deficiencies within that period of time, to the Lessor's
     reasonable determination, the Lessor shall undertake such corrective
     action.

9.3  If the Lessee fails to return the Premises to the, Lessor, the Lessee
     agrees to pay damages, at a daily rate equal to the normal daily rent to
     the Lessor, continuously until the Premises have been repaired to the
     satisfaction of the Lessor.

9.4  If the security deposit is inadequate to pay for the correction of any
     deficiency in the condition of the Premises, the Lessee shall pay to the
     Lessor such additional amounts as are required for this purpose.  However,
     if the Lessee corrects or repairs the deficiencies, the Lessor agrees to
     return the full amount of deposit as referred to in Clause 5 within 7 days
     from the date of a notice of returning the Premises is given properly to
     the Lessor by the Lessee.

10.  RENEWAL OF LEASE:

The Lessee may, at its option, renew this Lease upon the same terms and
conditions prescribed herein except the rent which shall be determined under
Clause 4, for 1 (one) term exercise the of 3 (three) years.  If the Lessee
wishes exercise this option, the Lessee shall notify the Lessor in writing 90
(ninety) days prior to the expiration of this  Lease. The renewal period will be
subject to the same terms and conditions of this lease.
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               7



11.  INSURANCE:

The parties agree that the Lessee shall keep insured the Premises to its full
value throughout the Lease Term by specifying the Lessor and Lessee as co-
beneficiaries and the Lessee shall have the duty to pay the premium.  In the
event of any insurance claim in respect of the Premises, the Lessor shall
receive the first Baht 95,000,000 (Ninety-five Million Baht only) of any
insurance monies recovered.

In addition, the Lessor agrees that the Lessee shall be entitled to keep insured
the properties brought onto or installed by the Lessee throughout the Lease
Term, and the Lessee shall be named as the sole beneficiary or sole loss payee
for any insurance proceeds to be received from the insurer(s) or reinsurer(s).

12.  ABANDONED PROPERTY:

Subject to any prior written request of the Lessee, all of the Lessee's property
remaining on the Premises after the termination of this Lease shall be deemed
abandoned and may be removed or stored by lessor at the Lessee's expense and
risk of loss or damage.

13.  PURCHASE OF PREMISES:

If at  any time from the Effective Date the Lessor shall desire to sell the
Premises the Lessor shall notify the Lessee and Lessee shall have the first and
exclusive right to purchase at a Fair Market Value, within 60 days of receipt of
such notice.  Should the Lessee fail to exercise the right, the Lessor, upon
expiration of the said period shall be free to sell to any third party provided
that the transferee shall be caused by the Lessor to assume rights and
obligations of the Lessors against the lessee under this Lease.

However, should the Lessor desire to sell the Premises during the renewal
period, the Lessor has the right terminate this Lease under Clause 8.4 provided
that the Lessee shall also have the same first and exclusive right as mentioned
in the first paragraph but the Lessor, without having to cause the transferee to
assume rights and obligations hereunder towards the Lessee.

For the purpose of this Clause, "Fair Market Value" means the amount for which
the Premises (without renovation and/or alteration made onto by the Lessee)
would be sold to a willing buyer by a willing seller, neither being under
compulsion, both parties having reasonable knowledge of all relevant facts and
with equity to both, as agreed to by the parties or as determined by three
appraisers acceptable to both the Lessor and the Lessee or as provided for
herein.

14.  NOTICE:

Any notice given hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or
registered letter or facsimile to the parties at the addresses set out below or
at such other address as shall be advised to the other party in writing upon
change.
<PAGE>
 
                                                                               8


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Lease is executed in English and Thai (for the purpose
of the lease registration) in triplicate with the same contents.  Any
discrepancies occur between the Thai and English versions, the parties agree
that the English version shall be the governing version in interpreting the
intention of the parties under this Agreement.  Each party and the competent
land officer keeps one copy.  Both parties have read and understood its contents
before the execution of this Lease.


LESSOR:                                    LESSEE:

UNIVERSAL APPLIANCES LIMITED               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY (THAILAND)LIMITED

Address: 889 Thai CC Tower,                Address: 1627 Moo 7, Teparuk Road,
18th Floor Room No. 183,                   Tumbol Teparuk, Amphur Muang,
South Sathom Road, Yannawa,                Samutprakarn
Sathom, Bangkok 10120

Fax: 210-0165                              Fax:  383-5755
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
<S>                                             <C>     
By:    /s/ John C.K. Sham                       By:  /s/ Pornchai Piemsomboon
       (Mr. John C. K. Sham)                          (Mr. Pornchai Piemsomboon
Title: Authorized Director                       Title: Authorized Director
ON THIS __ DAY OF JULY 1994
 
                                                 By:     /s/ Jirapannee Supratya
                                                         (Mrs. Jirapannee Supratya)
                                                 Title:  Authorized Director
                                                 ON THIS ___ DAY OF JULY 1994
 
By:  /s/ Khun Kumkit Kunavonggorakul Witness     By:__________________Witness
         (Khun Kumkit Kunavonggorakul
 
By: /s/ ILLEGIBLE Witness                        By:__________________Witness
</TABLE>
     (__________________)                          (___________________)
     (in Hong Kong)
<PAGE>
 
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                          DESCRIPTION OF THE PREMISES



1.   BUILDING

     As evidenced by house registration card No. 73 moo 5 Tumbol Bangsamak,
     Amphur Bangpakong, Cha Choeng Soa province, total area of 13,400 square
     meters.  Building pictures and building plan are attached hereto.

2.   LAND, PARTLY

     As evidenced by Chanod No. 13234, Land ?To. 171, Survey page No. 1138 Book
     No. 133, Page 34, located at Tumbol Bangsamak, Amphur Bangpakong, Cha
     Choeng Soa province.  Total area under the chanod is 18 rai 3 ngan 61
     square wah.  Total area under the Lease is 8 rai - ngan 50 square wah.  A
     map showing the boundaries of the land is attached hereto.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.7
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>1991 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.7
 

                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                       1991 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN
                       (AS AMENDED THROUGH AUGUST 1998)


     1.   Purposes of the Plan.  The purposes of this 1991 Incentive Stock
          --------------------                                            
Option Plan are:

          o    to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions
               of substantial responsibility,

          o    to provide additional incentive to Employees and Consultants, and

          o    to promote the success of the Company's business.

Options granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory
Stock Options, as determined by the Administrator at the time of grant.

     2.   Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
          -----------                                                         

          (a)    "Administrator" means the Board or any of its Committees as 
                  -------------                                                
shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

          (b)    "Applicable Laws" means the legal requirements relating to
                  ---------------                                          
the administration of stock option plans under state corporate and securities
laws and the Code.

          (c)    "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
                  -----                                              

          (d)    "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
                  ----                                                      

          (e)    "Committee"  means a Committee appointed by the Board in
                  ---------                                              
accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

          (f)    "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.
                  ------------                                        

          (g)    "Company" means Seagate Technology, Inc., a Delaware 
                  -------                                                
corporation.

          (h)    "Consultant" means any Director and any person engaged by the
                  ----------                                                  
Company or a Parent or Subsidiary to render services and who is compensated for
such services.

          (i)    "Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant" means that the
                  ----------------------------------------------                
employment or consulting relationship is not interrupted or terminated by the
Company, any Parent or Subsidiary.  Continuous Status as an Employee or
Consultant shall not be considered interrupted in the case of:  (i) any leave of
absence approved by the Board, including sick leave, military leave, or any
other personal leave; provided, however, that for purposes of Incentive Stock
Options, any

                                  
                                      -1-
<PAGE>
 
such leave may not exceed ninety (90) days, unless reemployment upon the
expiration of such leave is guaranteed by contract (including certain Company
policies) or statute; or (ii) transfers between locations of the Company or
between the Company, its Parent, its Subsidiaries or its successor.

          (j)    "Director" means a member of the Board.
                  --------                              

          (k)    "Disability" means total and permanent disability as defined in
                  ----------                                                    
Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.

          (l)    "Employee" means any person, including Officers and Directors,
                  --------                                                     
employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.  Neither
service as a Director nor payment of a director's fee by the Company shall be
sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.

          (m)    "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                  ------------                                               
amended.

          (n)    "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of Common
                  -----------------                                            
Stock determined as follows:

                 (i)    If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock
exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the National
Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated
Quotation ("NASDAQ") System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock
shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales
were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange with the
greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the last market trading day prior
to the day of determination, as reported in the Wall Street Journal or such
other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

                 (ii)   If the Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ System (but
not on the National Market System thereof) or is regularly quoted by a
recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, the Fair
Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid
and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the last market trading day prior
to the day of determination, as reported in the Wall Street Journal or such
other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

                 (iii)  In the absence of an established market for the Common
Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the
Administrator.

          (o)    "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as
                  ----------------------                               
an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.

          (p)    "Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option not intended to
                  -------------------------                                 
qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
          (q)    "Notice of Grant" means a written notice evidencing certain
                  ---------------                                           
terms and conditions of an individual Option grant.  The Notice of Grant is part
of the Option Agreement.

          (r)    "Officer" means a person who is an officer of the Company 
                  -------                                                  
within the meaning of Section 15 of the Exchange Act and the rules and 
regulations promulgated thereunder.

          (s)    "Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
                  ------                                                    

          (t)    "Option Agreement" means a written agreement between the
                  ----------------                                       
Company and an Optionee evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual
Option grant.  The Option Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of
the Plan.

          (u)    "Option Exchange Program" means a program whereby
                  -----------------------                         
outstanding options are surrendered in exchange for options with a lower
exercise price.

          (v)    "Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to an Option.
                  --------------                                              

          (w)    "Optionee" means an Employee or Consultant who holds an
                  --------                                              
outstanding Option.

          (x)    "Parent" means a "parent corporation", whether now or hereafter
                  ------                                                        
existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.

          (y)    "Plan" means this 1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan.
                  ----                                              

          (aa)   "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any
                  ----------                                             
successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with
respect to the Plan.

          (bb)   "Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in
                  -----                                                   
accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.

          (cc)   "Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or
                  ----------                                                  
hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.

     3.   Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of Section 13 of
          -------------------------                                             
the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned under the
Plan is 49,000,000 Shares of Common Stock.  The Shares may be authorized, but
unissued, or reacquired Common Stock. However, should the Company reacquire
Shares which were issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option, such Shares
shall not become available for future grant under the Plan.

          If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been
exercised in full, or is surrendered pursuant to an Option Exchange Program, the
unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future
grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated).


                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
     4.   Administration of the Plan.
          -------------------------- 

          (a)    Procedure.
                 --------- 

                 (i) Multiple Administrative Bodies.  If permitted by 
                     ------------------------------           
Rule 16b-3, the Plan may be administered by different bodies with respect to
Directors, Officers who are not Directors, and Employees who are neither
Directors nor Officers.

                 (ii) Administration With Respect to Directors and Officers
                      -----------------------------------------------------
Subject to Section 16(b).  With respect to Option grants made to Employees who
- ------------------------                                                      
are also Officers or Directors subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the
Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board, if the Board may administer the
Plan in compliance with the rules governing a plan intended to qualify as a
discretionary plan under Rule 16b-3, or (B) a committee designated by the Board
to administer the Plan, which committee shall be constituted to comply with the
rules governing a plan intended to qualify as a discretionary plan under Rule
16b-3.  Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated
capacity until otherwise directed by the Board.  From time to time the Board may
increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove
members (with or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies
(however caused), and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter
directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by the rules governing
a plan intended to qualify as a discretionary plan under Rule 16b-3.

                (iii) Administration With Respect to Other Persons.  With 
                      --------------------------------------------         
respect to Option grants made to Employees or Consultants who are neither
Directors nor Officers of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the
Board or (B) a committee designated by the Board, which committee shall be
constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws. Once appointed, such Committee shall
serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. The
Board may increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members,
remove members (with or without cause) and substitute new members, fill
vacancies (however caused), and remove all members of the Committee and
thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent permitted by
Applicable Laws.

          (b)    Powers of the Administrator.  Subject to the provisions of the
                 ---------------------------                                   
Plan, and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated
by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in
its discretion:

                 (i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in
accordance with Section 2(n) of the Plan;

                 (ii) to select the Consultants and Employees to whom Options
may be granted hereunder;

                 (iii) to determine whether and to what extent Options are
granted hereunder;


                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
                 (iv) to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be
covered by each Option granted hereunder;

                 (v) to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;

                 (vi) to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent
with the terms of the Plan, of any award granted hereunder. Such terms and
conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or
times when Options may be exercised (which may be based on performance
criteria), any vesting acceleration or waiver of forfeiture restrictions, and
any restriction or limitation regarding any Option or the shares of Common Stock
relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in
its sole discretion, shall determine;

                 (vii) to determine whether, to what extent and under what
circumstances Common Stock and other amounts payable with respect to an award
under this Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the
participant (including providing for and determining the amount (if any) of any
deemed earnings on any deferred amount during any deferral period);

                 (viii) to reduce the exercise price of any Option to the then
current Fair Market Value if the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock covered
by such Option shall have declined since the date the Option was granted;

                 (ix) to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan;

                 (x) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations
relating to the Plan;

                 (xi) to modify or amend each Option (subject to Section 14(c)
of the Plan);

                 (xii) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the
Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Option previously
granted by the Administrator;

                 (xiii) to institute an Option Exchange Program;

                 (xiv) to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to
Options; and

                 (xv) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or
advisable for administering the Plan.

          (c)    Effect of Administrator's Decision.  The Administrator's
                 ----------------------------------                      
decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all
Optionees and any other holders of Options.

     5.   Eligibility.  Nonstatutory Stock Options may be granted to Employees
          -----------                                                         
and Consultants.  Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees.  If
otherwise eligible, an Employee or Consultant who has been granted an Option may
be granted additional Options.


                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
     6.   Limitations.
          ----------- 

          (a)    Each Option shall be designated in the Notice of Grant as
either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option. However,
notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market
Value:

                 (i) of Shares subject to an Optionee's incentive stock options
     granted by the Company, any Parent or Subsidiary, which (ii) become
     exercisable for the first time during any calendar year (under all plans of
     the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary)

exceeds $100,000, such excess Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock
Options.  For purposes of this Section 6(a), incentive stock options shall be
taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market
Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time of grant.

          (b)    Neither the Plan nor any Option shall confer upon an Optionee
any right with respect to continuing the Optionee's employment or consulting
relationship with the Company, nor shall they interfere in any way with the
Optionee's right or the Company's right to terminate such employment or
consulting relationship at any time, with or without cause.

          (c)    Beginning October 28, 1993, the following limitations shall
apply to grants of Options to Officers:

                 (i) no Officer shall be granted in any fiscal year of the
Company, Options to purchase more than 160,000 Shares, provided that, a newly-
hired Officer may in addition receive a one-time grant of up to 300,000 Shares
upon acceptance of employment with the Company; and

                 (ii) over the remaining term of the Plan, no Officer shall be
granted Options to purchase more than 500,000 Shares.

     The foregoing limitations set forth in this Section 6(c) are intended to
satisfy the requirements applicable to Options intended to qualify as
"performance-based compensation" (within the meaning of Section 162(k) of the
Code).  In the event the Administrator determines that such limitations are not
required to qualify Options as performance-based compensation, the Administrator
may modify or eliminate such limitations.

     7.   Term of Plan.  Subject to Section 18 of the Plan, the Plan shall
          ------------                                                    
become effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its
approval by the shareholders of the Company as described in Section 18 of the
Plan.  It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless
terminated earlier under Section 14 of the Plan.

     8.   Term of Option.  The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice
          --------------                                                        
of Grant; provided, however, that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the
term shall be ten (10) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may
be provided in the Notice of Grant.  Moreover, in the case of an Incentive Stock
Option granted to an Optionee who, at the time the Incentive Stock 



                                     -6- 
<PAGE>
 
Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent (10%) of the
voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary,
the term of the Incentive Stock Option shall be five (5) years from the date of
grant or such shorter term as may be provided in the Notice of Grant.

     9.   Option Exercise Price and Consideration.
          --------------------------------------- 

          (a)    Exercise Price.  The per share exercise price for the Shares 
                 -------------- 
to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the
Administrator, subject to the following:

                 (i) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option

                         (A)    granted to an Employee who, at the time the
Incentive Stock Option is granted, owns stock representing more than ten percent
(10%) of the voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or any Parent
or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the
Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant.

                         (B)    granted to any Employee, the per Share exercise
price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date
of grant.

                 (ii) In the case of a Nonstatutory Stock Option, the per Share
exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on
the date of grant.

          (b)    Waiting Period and Exercise Dates.  At the time an Option is
                 ---------------------------------                           
granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be
exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the
Option may be exercised.  In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an
Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period.

          (c)    Form of Consideration.  The Administrator shall determine the
                 ---------------------                                        
acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method
of payment.  In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall
determine the acceptable form of consideration at the time of grant.  Such
consideration may consist entirely of:

                 (i)   cash;

                 (ii)  check;

                 (iii) promissory note;

                 (iv)  other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired
upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more than six
months on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of
surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said
Option shall be exercised; 


                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
                 (v)   delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together
with such other documentation as the Administrator and the Optionee's broker, if
applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to
the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price;

                 (vi)  any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or

                 (vii) such other consideration and method of payment for the
issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

     10.  Exercise of Option.
          ------------------ 

          (a)    Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder. Any Option
                 -----------------------------------------------            
granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at
such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set
forth in the Option Agreement.

                 An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

                 An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives:
(i) written notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option Agreement) from
the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full payment for the Shares
with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any
consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and
permitted by the Option Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued upon exercise of
an Option shall be issued in the name of the Optionee or, if requested by the
Optionee, in the name of the Optionee and his or her spouse. Until the stock
certificate evidencing such Shares is issued (as evidenced by the appropriate
entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the
Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a
shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the
exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such
stock certificate promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be
made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the
date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 12 of the
Plan.

                 Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of
Shares thereafter available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under
the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.

          (b)    Termination of Employment or Consulting Relationship.  In the
                 ----------------------------------------------------         
event that an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant
terminates (other than upon the Optionee's death or Disability), the Optionee
may exercise his or her Option, but only within such period of time as is
determined by the Administrator, and only to the extent that the Optionee was
entitled to exercise it at the date of termination (but in no event later than
the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant).
In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall determine such
period of time (in no event to exceed ninety (90) days from the date of
termination) when the Option is granted.  If, at the date of termination, the
Optionee is not



                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
entitled to exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the
unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after
termination, the Optionee does not exercise his or her Option within the time
specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares
covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

          (c)    Disability of Optionee.  In the event that an Optionee's
                 ----------------------                                  
Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant terminates as a result of the
Optionee's Disability, the Optionee may exercise his or her Option at any time
within six (6) months from the date of such termination, but only to the extent
that the Optionee was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination
(but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set
forth in the Notice of Grant).  If, at the date of termination, the Optionee is
not entitled to exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the
unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan.  If, after
termination, the Optionee does not exercise his or her Option within the time
specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such
Option shall revert to the Plan.

          (d)    Death of Optionee.  In the event of the death of an Optionee, 
                 -----------------                                        
the Option may be exercised at any time within six (6) months following the date
of death (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option
as set forth in the Notice of Grant), by the Optionee's estate or by a person
who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but
only to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option at the
date of death. If, at the time of death, the Optionee was not entitled to
exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unexercisable
portion of the Option shall immediately revert to the Plan. If, after death, the
Optionee's estate or a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by
bequest or inheritance does not exercise the Option within the time specified
herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall
revert to the Plan.

     11.  Non-Transferability of Options.
          ------------------------------ 

          (a)    Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Option may
not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any
manner other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and may be
exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee.  If the
Administrator makes an Option transferable, such Option shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.

          (b)    An Optionee may file a written designation of a beneficiary who
is to receive any options that remain unexercised in the event of the Optionee's
death.  If a participant is married and the designated beneficiary is not the
spouse, spousal consent shall be required for such designation to be effective.

          (c)    Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the Optionee
at any time by written notice, subject to the above spousal consent conditions.
In the event of the death of the Optionee and in the absence of a beneficiary
validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such Optionee's,
the Company shall deliver such options to the executor or administrator of the
estate of the Optionee, or if no such executor or administrator has been
appointed (to the 


                                      -9-
<PAGE>
 
knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such
options to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the
participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company,
then to such other person as the Company may designate.

     12.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger, Asset
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
          Sale or Change of Control.
          ------------------------- 

          (a)    Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required action by 
                 -------------------------                                     
the shareholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock covered by
each outstanding Option, and the number of shares of Common Stock which have
been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Options have yet
been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or
expiration of an Option, as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered
by each such outstanding Option, shall be proportionately adjusted for any
increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock resulting
from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or
reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the
number of issued shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of
consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any
convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected
without receipt of consideration."  Such adjustment shall be made by the Board,
whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of
stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class,
shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to,
the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option.

          (b)    Dissolution or Liquidation.  In the event of the proposed
                 --------------------------                               
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, to the extent that an Option has not
been previously exercised, it will terminate immediately prior to the
consummation of such proposed action.  The Board may, in the exercise of its
sole discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall terminate as of
a date fixed by the Board and give each Optionee the right to exercise his or
her Option as to all or any part of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to
which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable.

          (c)    Merger or Asset Sale.  Subject to the provisions of paragraph 
                 --------------------                                           
hereof, in the event of a merger of the Company with or into another
corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, each
outstanding Option shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted
by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor
corporation.  In the event that the successor corporation does not agree to
assume the Option or to substitute an equivalent option, the Administrator
shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the Optionee to
have the right to exercise the Option as to all or a portion of the Optioned
Stock, including Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable.  If
the Administrator makes an Option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or
substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Administrator shall
notify the Optionee that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of
fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option will terminate
upon the expiration of such period.  For the purposes of this paragraph, the
Option shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets,
the option confers the right to purchase, for each Share subject to the Option
immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets, the consideration 


                                     -10-
<PAGE>
 
(whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or
sale of assets by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective
date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration,
the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding
Shares); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the merger or
sale of assets was not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its
Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation and
the participant, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise
of the Option, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option, to be
solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in Fair
Market Value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock
in the merger or sale of assets.

          (d)    Change in Control.  In the event of a "Change in Control" of 
                 -----------------                                             
the Company, as defined in paragraph (e) below, then the following acceleration
and valuation provisions shall apply:

                 (i)   Except as otherwise determined by the Board, in its
     discretion, prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, any Options
     outstanding on the date such Change in Control is determined to have
     occurred that are not yet exercisable and vested on such date shall become
     fully exercisable and vested;

                 (ii)  Except as otherwise determined by the Board, in its
     discretion, prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control, all outstanding
     Options, to the extent they are exercisable and vested (including Options
     that shall become exercisable and vested pursuant to subparagraph (i)
     above), shall be terminated in exchange for a cash payment equal to the
     Change in Control Price (reduced by the exercise price applicable to such
     Options).  These cash proceeds shall be paid to the Optionee or, in the
     event of death of an Optionee prior to payment, to the estate of the
     Optionee or to a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by
     bequest or inheritance.

          (e)    Definition of "Change in Control".  For purposes of this 
                 ---------------------------------                             
Section 12, a "Change in Control" means the happening of any of the following:

                 (i)   When any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d)
     and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, a Subsidiary or a
     Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as
     trustee) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3
     under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
     Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting
     power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote
     generally in the election of directors; or

                 (ii)  The shareholders of the Company approve a merger or
     consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a
     merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the
     Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent
     (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting
     securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the
     total voting power repre-


                                     -11-
<PAGE>
 
     sented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity
     outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the
     shareholders of the Company approve an agreement for the sale or
     disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company's
     assets; or

                 (iii) A change in the composition of the Board of Directors of
     the Company, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the directors
     are Incumbent Directors. "Incumbent Directors" shall mean directors who
     either (A) are directors of the Company as of the date the Plan is approved
     by the shareholders, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the
     Board of Directors of the Company with the affirmative votes of at least a
     majority of the Incumbent Directors at the time of such election or
     nomination (but shall not include an individual whose election or
     nomination is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest
     relating to the election of directors to the Company).

          (f)    Change in Control Price.  For purposes of this Section 12, 
                 -----------------------                                    
"Change in Control Price" shall be, as determined by the Board, (i) the highest
Fair Market Value of a Share within the 60 day period immediately preceding the
date of determination of the Change in Control Price by the Board (the "60-Day
Period"), or (ii) the highest price paid or offered per Share, as determined by
the Board, in any bona fide transaction or bona fide offer related to the Change
in Control of the Company, at any time within the 60-Day Period, or (iii) some
lower price as the Board, in its discretion, determines to be a reasonable
estimate of the fair market value of a Share.

     13.  Date of Grant.  The date of grant of an Option shall be, for all
          -------------                                                   
purposes, the date on which the Administrator makes the determination granting
such Option, or such other later date as is determined by the Administrator.
Notice of the determination shall be provided to each Optionee within a
reasonable time after the date of such grant.

     14.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
          ------------------------------------- 

          (a)    Amendment and Termination.  The Board may at any time amend,
                 -------------------------                                   
alter, suspend or terminate the Plan.

          (b)    Shareholder Approval.  The Company shall obtain shareholder
                 --------------------                                       
approval of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply
with Rule 16b-3 or with Section 422 of the Code (or any successor rule or
statute or other applicable law, rule or regulation, including the requirements
of any exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or
quoted).  Such shareholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a
manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or
regulation.

          (c)    Effect of Amendment or Termination.  No amendment, alteration,
                 ----------------------------------                            
suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Optionee,
unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and the Administrator,
which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the Company.


                                     -12-
<PAGE>
 
     15.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.
          ---------------------------------- 

          (a)    Legal Compliance.  Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the
                 ----------------                                             
exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and
delivery of such Shares shall comply with all relevant provisions of law,
including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the
Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, Applicable Laws,
and the requirements of any stock exchange or quotation system upon which the
Shares may then be listed or quoted, and shall be further subject to the
approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.

          (b)    Investment Representations.  As a condition to the exercise of 
                 --------------------------                                     
an Option, the Company may require the person exercising such Option to
represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being
purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or
distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a
representation is required.

     16.  Liability of Company.
          -------------------- 

          (a)    Inability to Obtain Authority.  The inability of the Company to
                 -----------------------------                                  
obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority
is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and
sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in
respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite
authority shall not have been obtained.

          (b)    Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares.  If the Optioned Stock 
                 --------------------------------                         
covered by an Option exceeds, as of the date of grant, the number of Shares
which may be issued under the Plan without additional shareholder approval, such
Option shall be void with respect to such excess Optioned Stock, unless
shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of
Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with Section 14(b)
of the Plan.

     17.  Reservation of Shares.  The Company, during the term of this Plan,
          ---------------------                                             
will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

     18.  Shareholder Approval.  Continuance of the Plan shall be subject
          --------------------                                           
to approval by the shareholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before
or after the date the Plan is adopted. Such shareholder approval shall be
obtained in the manner and to the degree required under applicable federal and
state law.


                                     -13-
<PAGE>
 
                       1991 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN

                            STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT


     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the 1991 Incentive
Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same defined meanings in this
Option Agreement.

I.  NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT
    ----------------------------

Optionee's Name
Optionee's Address

     You have been granted an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company,
subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Stock Option Agreement,
as follows:

     Grant Number                        __________________

     Date of Grant                       __________________

     Vesting Commencement Date           __________________

     Exercise Price per Share            $
                                         __________________

     Total Number of Shares Granted      __________________

     Total Exercise Price                $
                                         __________________

     Type of Option:               ___ Incentive Stock Option

                                   ___ Nonstatutory Stock Option
                              

     Term/Expiration Date:          _________________________


Vesting Schedule:
- ---------------- 

     This Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, in accordance with the
following schedule:
<PAGE>
 
     Termination Period:
     ------------------ 

     This Option may be exercised for ninety (90) days after termination of
employment or consulting relationship, or such longer period as may be
applicable upon death or Disability of Optionee as provided in the Plan, but in
no event later than the Term/Expiration Date as provided above.


II.  AGREEMENT
     ---------

     1.   Grant of Option.  The Plan Administrator of the Company hereby grants
          ---------------                                                      
to the Optionee named in the Notice of Grant attached as Part I of this
Agreement (the "Optionee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase a number of
Shares, as set forth in the Notice of Grant, at the exercise price per share set
forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and
conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Subject to
Section 14(c) of the Plan, in the event of a conflict between the terms and
conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement,
the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.

          If designated in the Notice of Grant as an Incentive Stock Option,
this Option is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option under Section
422 of the Code.

     2.   Exercise of Option.
          ------------------ 

          (a)    Right to Exercise.  This Option is exercisable during its 
                 -----------------                                            
term in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Grant and
the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement. In the event of
Optionee's death, Disability or other termination of Optionee's employment or
consulting relationship, the exercisability of the Option is governed by the
applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.

          (b)    Method of Exercise.  This Option is exercisable by delivery of 
                 ------------------                                             
an exercise notice, in the form attached as Exhibit A (the "Exercise Notice"),
which shall state the election to exercise the Option, the number of Shares in
respect of which the Option is being exercised (the "Exercised Shares"), and
such other representations and agreements as may be required by the Company
pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.  The Exercise Notice shall be signed by
the Optionee and shall be delivered in person or by certified mail to the
Secretary of the Company.  The Exercise Notice shall be accompanied by payment
of the aggregate Exercise Price as to all Exercised Shares.  This Option shall
be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such fully executed
Exercise Notice accompanied by such aggregate Exercise Price.

          No Shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of this Option
unless such issuance and exercise complies with all relevant provisions of law
and the requirements of any stock exchange 


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
upon which the Shares are then listed. Assuming such compliance, for income tax
purposes the Exercised Shares shall be considered transferred to the Optionee on
the date the Option is exercised with respect to such Exercised Shares.

     3.   Method of Payment.  Payment of the aggregate Exercise Price shall be
          -----------------                                                   
by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the
Optionee:

          (a)    cash; or

          (b)    check; or

          (c)    delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
such other documentation as the Administrator and the Optionee's broker, if
applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to
the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price; or

          (d)    surrender of other Shares which (i) in the case of Shares
acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more
than six (6) months on the date of surrender, AND (ii) have a Fair Market Value
on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate Exercise Price of the Exercised
Shares.

     4.   Transferability of Option.  This Option may not be transferred in any
          -------------------------                                            
manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and may
be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by the Optionee.  The terms of
the Plan and this Option Agreement shall be binding upon the executors,
administrators, heirs, successors and assigns of the Optionee.

     5.   Term of Option.  This Option may be exercised only within the term set
          --------------                                                        
out in the Notice of Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in
accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option Agreement.

     6.   Tax Consequences.  Some of the federal tax consequences relating to
          ----------------                                                   
this Option, as of the date of this Option, are set forth below.  THIS SUMMARY
IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO
CHANGE. THE OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THIS OPTION
OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.

          (a)    Exercising the Option.
                 --------------------- 

                 (i)   Nonqualified Stock Option ("NSO").  If this Option does 
                       ---------------------------------                       
not qualify as an ISO, the Optionee may incur regular federal income tax
liability upon exercise. The Optionee will be treated as having received
compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess,
if any, of the fair market value of the Exercised Shares on the date of exercise
over their aggregate Exercise Price. If the Optionee is an employee, the Company
will be required to withhold


                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
from his or her compensation or collect from Optionee and pay to the applicable
taxing authorities an amount equal to a percentage of this compensation income
at the time of exercise.

                 (ii)  Incentive Stock Option ("ISO").  If this Option qualifies
                       ------------------------------                           
as an ISO, the Optionee will have no regular federal income tax liability upon
its exercise, although the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the
Exercised Shares on the date of exercise over their aggregate Exercise Price
will be treated as an adjustment to the alternative minimum tax for federal tax
purposes and may subject the Optionee to alternative minimum tax in the year of
exercise.

          (b)    Disposition of Shares.
                 --------------------- 

                 (i)   NSO.  If the Optionee holds NSO Shares for at least one 
                       ---                                              
year, any gain realized on disposition of the Shares will be treated as long-
term capital gain for federal income tax purposes.

                 (ii)  ISO.  If the Optionee holds ISO Shares for at least one 
                       ---                                          
year after exercise AND two years after the grant date, any gain realized on
disposition of the Shares will be treated as long-term capital gain for federal
income tax purposes.  If the Optionee disposes of ISO Shares within one year
after exercise or two years after the grant date, any gain realized on such
disposition will be treated as compensation income (taxable at ordinary income
rates) to the extent of the excess, if any, of the LESSER OF (A) the difference
between the FAIR MARKET VALUE OF THE SHARES ACQUIRED ON THE DATE OF EXERCISE and
the aggregate Exercise Price, or (B) the difference between the SALE PRICE of
such Shares and the aggregate Exercise Price.

          (c)    Notice of Disqualifying Disposition of ISO Shares.  If the
                 -------------------------------------------------         
Optionee sells or otherwise disposes of any of the Shares acquired pursuant to
an ISO on or before the later of (i) two years after the grant date, or (ii) one
year after the exercise date, the Optionee shall immediately notify the Company
in writing of such disposition.  The Optionee agrees that he or she may be
subject to income tax withholding by the Company on the compensation income
recognized from such early disposition of ISO Shares by payment in cash or out
of the current earnings paid to the Optionee.

     By your signature and the signature of the Company's representative below,
you and the Company agree that this Option is granted under and governed by the
terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.  Optionee has
reviewed the Plan and this Option Agreement in their entirety, has had an
opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Option
Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Plan and Option Agreement.
Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions
or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan
and Option Agreement.

OPTIONEE:                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

______________________________           By:___________________________
Signature

______________________________           Title:________________________
Print Name


                                     -4-
<PAGE>
 
                          DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY
                          --------------------------

     In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my
beneficiary(ies) to receive all of my options that are unexercised at that time.


NAME: (Please print) _____________________________________________
                        (First)         (Middle)       (Last)


____________________               ______________________________________
Relationship
                                   ______________________________________
                                   (Address)

Dated: ______________              ______________________________________
                                   Signature of Employee


                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
                               CONSENT OF SPOUSE
                               -----------------

     The undersigned spouse of Optionee has read and hereby approves the terms
and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.  In consideration of the
Company's granting his or her spouse the right to purchase Shares as set forth
in the Plan and this Option Agreement, the undersigned hereby agrees to be
irrevocably bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option
Agreement and further agrees that any community property interest shall be
similarly bound.  The undersigned hereby appoints the undersigned's spouse as
attorney-in-fact for the undersigned with respect to any amendment or exercise
of rights under the Plan or this Option Agreement.


                                  
                                    _________________________________________
                                    Spouse of Optionee                    


                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
                       1991 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN
                            STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
                                EARLY EXERCISE


     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the 1991 Incentive
Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same defined meanings in this
Option Agreement.

I.   NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT
     ----------------------------

Optionee's Name
Optionee's Address

     You have been granted an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company,
subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Stock Option Agreement,
as follows:

     Grant Number                        __________________

     Date of Grant                       __________________

     Vesting Commencement Date           __________________

     Exercise Price per Share            $
                                         __________________

     Total Number of Shares Granted      __________________

     Total Exercise Price                $
                                         __________________

     Type of Option:              ___ Incentive Stock Option

                                  ___ Nonstatutory Stock Option
                            

     Term/Expiration Date:      _________________________


Vesting Schedule:
- ---------------- 

     This Option vests in accordance with the following schedule:

Termination Period:
- ------------------ 

     This Option may be exercised for ninety (90) days after termination of
employment or consulting relationship, or such longer period as may be
applicable upon death or Disability of 


                                      -1-
<PAGE>
 
Optionee as provided in the Plan, but in no event later than the Term/Expiration
Date as provided above.

II.  AGREEMENT
     ---------

     1.   Grant of Option.  The Plan Administrator of the Company hereby grants
          ---------------                                                      
to the Optionee named in the Notice of Grant attached as Part I of this
Agreement (the "Optionee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase a number of
Shares, as set forth in the Notice of Grant, at the exercise price per share set
forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and
conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference.  Subject to
Section 14(c) of the Plan, in the event of a conflict between the terms and
conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement,
the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.

          If designated in the Notice of Grant as an Incentive Stock Option,
this Option is intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option under Section
422 of the Code.

     2.   Exercise of Option.
          ------------------ 

          (a)    Right to Exercise.  This Option is exercisable during its 
                 -----------------                                            
term in accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Grant and 
the applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement; provided, 
                                                                 --------  
however,that upon execution of a Restricted Stock Agreement in the form of 
- -------  
Exhibit A-1 hereto and upon compliance with the terms thereof, the Optionee may
exercise this Option with respect to unvested shares. In the event of Optionee's
death, Disability or other termination of Optionee's employment or consulting
relationship, the exercisability of the Option is governed by the applicable
provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.

          (b)    Method of Exercise.  This Option is exercisable by delivery of
                 ------------------                                   
an exercise notice, in the form attached as Exhibit A (the "Exercise Notice"),
which shall state the election to exercise the Option, the number of Shares in
respect of which the Option is being exercised (the "Exercised Shares"), and
such other representations and agreements as may be required by the Company
pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.  The Exercise Notice shall be signed by
the Optionee and shall be delivered in person or by certified mail to the
Secretary of the Company.  The Exercise Notice shall be accompanied by payment
of the aggregate Exercise Price as to all Exercised Shares.  This Option shall
be deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such fully executed
Exercise Notice accompanied by such aggregate Exercise Price.

          No Shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of this Option
unless such issuance and exercise complies with all relevant provisions of law
and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares are then
listed.  Assuming such compliance, for income tax purposes the Exercised Shares
shall be considered transferred to the Optionee on the date the Option is
exercised with respect to such Exercised Shares.


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
     3.   Method of Payment.  Payment of the aggregate Exercise Price shall be
          -----------------                                                   
by any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the
Optionee:

          (a)    cash; or

          (b)    check; or

          (c)    delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
such other documentation as the Administrator and the Optionee's broker, if
applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to
the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price; or

          (d)    surrender of other Shares which (i) in the case of Shares
acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more
than six (6) months on the date of surrender, AND (ii) have a Fair Market Value
on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate Exercise Price of the Exercised
Shares.

     4.   Transferability of Option.  This Option may not be transferred in any
          -------------------------                                            
manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and may
be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by the Optionee. The terms of
the Plan and this Option Agreement shall be binding upon the executors,
administrators, heirs, successors and assigns of the Optionee.

     5.   Term of Option.  This Option may be exercised only within the term set
          --------------                                                        
out in the Notice of Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in
accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option Agreement.

     6.   Tax Consequences.  Some of the federal tax consequences relating to
          ----------------                                                   
this Option, as of the date of this Option, are set forth below.  THIS SUMMARY
IS NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO
CHANGE. THE OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THIS OPTION
OR DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.

          (a)    Exercising the Option.
                 --------------------- 

                 (i)   Nonqualified Stock Option ("NSO").  If this Option does 
                       ---------------------------------                       
not qualify as an ISO, the Optionee may incur regular federal income tax
liability upon exercise. The Optionee will be treated as having received
compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal to the excess,
if any, of the fair market value of the Exercised Shares on the date of exercise
over their aggregate Exercise Price. If the Optionee is an employee, the Company
will be required to withhold from his or her compensation or collect from
Optionee and pay to the applicable taxing authorities an amount equal to a
percentage of this compensation income at the time of exercise.

                 (ii)  Incentive Stock Option ("ISO").  If this Option qualifies
                       ------------------------------                           
as an ISO, the Optionee will have no regular federal income tax liability upon
its exercise, although the excess, if 


                                     -3-
<PAGE>
 
any, of the fair market value of the Exercised Shares on the date of exercise
over their aggregate Exercise Price will be treated as an adjustment to the
alternative minimum tax for federal tax purposes and may subject the Optionee to
alternative minimum tax in the year of exercise.

          (b)    Disposition of Shares.
                 --------------------- 

                 (i)   NSO.  If the Optionee holds NSO Shares for at least one 
                       ---                                                 
year, any gain realized on disposition of the Shares will be treated as long-
term capital gain for federal income tax purposes.

                 (ii)  ISO.  If the Optionee holds ISO Shares for at least one 
                       ---                                             
year after exercise AND two years after the grant date, any gain realized on
disposition of the Shares will be treated as long-term capital gain for federal
income tax purposes.  If the Optionee disposes of ISO Shares within one year
after exercise or two years after the grant date, any gain realized on such
disposition will be treated as compensation income (taxable at ordinary income
rates) to the extent of the excess, if any, of the LESSER OF (A) the difference
between the FAIR MARKET VALUE OF THE SHARES ACQUIRED ON THE DATE OF EXERCISE and
the aggregate Exercise Price, or (B) the difference between the SALE PRICE of
such Shares and the aggregate Exercise Price.

          (c)    Notice of Disqualifying Disposition of ISO Shares.  If the
                 -------------------------------------------------         
Optionee sells or otherwise disposes of any of the Shares acquired pursuant to
an ISO on or before the later of (i) two years after the grant date, or (ii) one
year after the exercise date, the Optionee shall immediately notify the Company
in writing of such disposition.  The Optionee agrees that he or she may be
subject to income tax withholding by the Company on the compensation income
recognized from such early disposition of ISO Shares by payment in cash or out
of the current earnings paid to the Optionee.

     By your signature and the signature of the Company's representative below,
you and the Company agree that this Option is granted under and governed by the
terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.  Optionee has
reviewed the Plan and this Option Agreement in their entirety, has had an
opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Option
Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Plan and Option Agreement.
Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions
or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan
and Option Agreement.


OPTIONEE:                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

______________________________      By:___________________________
Signature

______________________________      Title:________________________
Print Name


                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
                          DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY
                          --------------------------

     In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my
beneficiary(ies) to receive all of my options that are unexercised at that time.


NAME: (Please print) _____________________________________________
                       (First)         (Middle)       (Last)


____________________          ______________________________________
Relationship
                              ______________________________________
                                    (Address)

Dated: ______________         ______________________________________
                                     Signature of Employee


                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
                               CONSENT OF SPOUSE
                               -----------------

     The undersigned spouse of Optionee has read and hereby approves the terms
and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.  In consideration of the
Company's granting his or her spouse the right to purchase Shares as set forth
in the Plan and this Option Agreement, the undersigned hereby agrees to be
irrevocably bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option
Agreement and further agrees that any community property interest shall be
similarly bound.  The undersigned hereby appoints the undersigned's spouse as
attorney-in-fact for the undersigned with respect to any amendment or exercise
of rights under the Plan or this Option Agreement.


                                        
                                                      -------------------------
                                                      Spouse of Optionee


                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
                                   EXHIBIT A
                                   ---------


                       1991 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN

                                EXERCISE NOTICE



Seagate Technology, Inc.
920 Disc Drive
Scotts Valley, California  95066
Attention:  Secretary

     1.   Exercise of Option.  Effective as of today, ___________, 199__, the
          ------------------                                                 
undersigned ("Purchaser") hereby elects to purchase _________ shares (the
"Shares") of the Common Stock of Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company") under
and pursuant to the 1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") and the Stock
Option Agreement dated _______________ (the "Option Agreement").  The purchase
price for the Shares shall be $__________, as required by the Option Agreement.

     2.   Delivery of Payment.  Purchaser herewith delivers to the Company
          -------------------                                             
the full purchase price for the Shares.

     3.   Representations of Optionee.  Optionee acknowledges that Optionee has
          ---------------------------                                          
received, read and understood the Plan and the Option Agreement and agrees to
abide by and be bound by their terms and conditions.

     4.   Rights as Shareholder.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this
          ---------------------                                              
Agreement, Optionee shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Company
with respect to the Shares from and after the date that Optionee delivers full
payment of the Exercise Price until such time as Optionee disposes of the
Shares.

     5.   Tax Consultation.  Optionee understands that Optionee may suffer
          ----------------                                                
adverse tax consequences as a result of Optionee's purchase or disposition of
the Shares.  Optionee represents that Optionee has consulted with any tax
consultants Optionee deems advisable in connection with the purchase or
disposition of the Shares and that Optionee is not relying on the Company for
any tax advice.

     6.   Entire Agreement; Governing Law.  The Plan and Option Agreement are
          -------------------------------                                    
incorporated herein by reference. This Exercise Notice, the Plan and the Option
Agreement constitute the entire agreement of the parties and supersede in their
entirety all prior undertakings and agreements of the







<PAGE>
 
Company and Optionee with respect to the subject matter hereof, and such
agreement is governed by Delaware law except for that body of law pertaining to
conflict of laws.



Submitted by:                       Accepted by:


OPTIONEE:                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

______________________________      By:__________________________
Signature

______________________________      Its:___________________________
Print Name



Address:                                 Address:
- -------                                  ------- 

______________________________           920 Disc Drive
______________________________           Scotts Valley, California  95066


                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT A-1
                                  -----------

                       1991 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION PLAN

                          RESTRICTED STOCK AGREEMENT


     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have
the same defined meanings in this Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement.

     WHEREAS, the Purchaser named in the Notice of Grant, (the "Purchaser") is
an employee or consultant of the Company, and the Purchaser's continued
participation is considered by the Company to be important for the Company's
continued growth; and

     WHEREAS, in order to give the Purchaser an opportunity to acquire an equity
interest in the Company as an incentive for the Purchaser to participate in the
affairs of the Company, the Admin  istrator has granted to the Purchaser the
right to exercise options relating to unvested shares subject to the terms and
conditions of the Plan and the Notice of Grant, which are incorporated herein by
reference, and pursuant to this restricted stock purchase agreement (the
"Agreement").

     THEREFORE, the parties agree as follows:

     1.   Sale of Stock.  The Company hereby agrees to sell to the Purchaser and
          -------------                                                         
the Purchaser hereby agrees to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock
(the "Shares"), at the exercise price per share and as otherwise described in
the Notice of Grant.

     2.   Payment of Purchase Price.  The purchase price for the Shares may be
          -------------------------                                           
paid by delivery to the Company at the time of execution of this Agreement by
any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Optionee:
(a) cash; (b) check; or (c) surrender of other Shares which (i) in the case of
Shares acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for
more than six (6) months on the date of surrender, AND (ii) have a Fair Market
Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate Exercise Price of the
Exercised Shares.

     3.   Repurchase Option.
          ----------------- 

          a.   In the event the Purchaser's Continuous Status as an Employee or
Consultant terminates for any or no reason (including death or disability)
before all of the Shares are released from the Company's repurchase option (see
Section 4), the Company shall, upon the date of such termination (as reasonably
fixed and determined by the Company) have an irrevocable, exclusive option for a
period of sixty (60) days from such date to repurchase up to that number of
shares which constitute the Unreleased Shares (as defined in Section 4) at the
original purchase price per share (the "Repurchase Price").  Said option shall
be exercised by the Company by delivering written notice to the Purchaser or the
Purchaser's executor (with a copy to the Escrow Holder) AND, at the Company's
option, (i) by delivering to the Purchaser or the Purchaser's executor a check
in the amount of the aggregate Repurchase Price, or (ii) by the Company
canceling an amount of the Purchaser's indebtedness to the Company equal to the
aggregate Repurchase Price, or (iii) by a combination of 
<PAGE>
 
(i) and (ii) so that the combined payment and cancellation of indebtedness
equals such aggregate Repurchase Price. Upon delivery of such notice and the
payment of the aggregate Repurchase Price in any of the ways described above,
the Company shall become the legal and beneficial owner of the Shares being
repurchased and all rights and interests therein or relating thereto, and the
Company shall have the right to retain and transfer to its own name the number
of Shares being repurchased by the Company.

          b.   Whenever the Company shall have the right to repurchase Shares
hereunder, the Company may designate and assign one or more employees, officers,
directors or shareholders of the Company or other persons or organizations to
exercise all or a part of the Company's purchase rights under this Agreement and
purchase all or a part of such Shares; provided that if the Fair Market Value of
the Shares to be repurchased on the date of such designation or assignment (the
"Repurchase FMV") exceeds the aggregate Repurchase Price of such Shares, then
each such designee or assignee shall pay the Company cash equal to the
difference between the Repurchase FMV and the aggregate Repurchase Price of such
Shares.

     4.   Release of Shares From Repurchase Option.
          ---------------------------------------- 

          a.   ___________________ (_______) of the Shares shall be released
from the Company's repurchase option___________________________________________
______________________, provided in each case that the Purchaser's Continuous
Status as an Employee or Consultant has not terminated prior to the date of any
such release.

          b.   Any of the Shares which have not yet been released from the
Company's repurchase option are referred to herein as "Unreleased Shares."

          c.   The Shares which have been released from the Company's repurchase
option shall be delivered to the Purchaser at the Purchaser's request (see
Section 6).

     5.   Restriction on Transfer.  Except for the escrow described in Section 6
          -----------------------                                               
or transfer of the Shares to the Company or its assignees contemplated by this
Agreement, none of the Shares or any beneficial interest therein shall be
transferred, encumbered or otherwise disposed of in any way until the release of
such Shares from the Company's repurchase option in accordance with the provi
sions of this Agreement, other than by will or the laws of descent and
distribution.

     6.   Escrow of Shares.
          ---------------- 

          a.   To ensure the availability for delivery of the Purchaser's
Unreleased Shares upon repurchase by the Company pursuant to the Company's
repurchase option under Section 3 above, the Purchaser shall, upon execution of
this Agreement, deliver and deposit with an escrow holder designated by the
Company (the "Escrow Holder") the share certificates representing the Unreleased
Shares, together with the stock assignment duly endorsed in blank, attached
hereto as Exhibit A-2.  The Unreleased Shares and stock assignment shall be held
by the Escrow Holder, pursuant to the Joint Escrow Instructions of the Company
and Purchaser attached as Exhibit A-3 hereto, until such time as the Company's
repurchase option expires.  As a further condition to the 
<PAGE>
 
Company's obligations under this Agreement, the spouse of Purchaser, if any,
shall execute and deliver to the Company the Consent of Spouse attached hereto
as Exhibit A-4.

          b.   The Escrow Holder shall not be liable for any act it may do or
omit to do with respect to holding the Unreleased Shares in escrow and while
acting in good faith and in the exercise of its judgment.

          c.   If the Company or any assignee exercises its repurchase option
hereunder, the Escrow Holder, upon receipt of written notice of such option
exercise from the proposed transferee, shall take all steps necessary to
accomplish such transfer.

          d.   When the repurchase option has been exercised or expires
unexercised or a portion of the Shares has been released from such repurchase
option, upon Purchaser's request the Escrow Holder shall promptly cause a new
certificate to be issued for such released Shares and shall deliver such
certificate to the Company or the Purchaser, as the case may be.

          e.   Subject to the terms hereof, the Purchaser shall have all the
rights of a shareholder with respect to such Shares while they are held in
escrow, including without limitation, the right to vote the Shares and receive
any cash dividends declared thereon.  If, from time to time during the term of
the Company's repurchase option, there is (i) any stock dividend, stock split or
other change in the Shares, or (ii) any merger or sale of all or substantially
all of the assets or other acquisition of the Company, any and all new,
substituted or additional securities to which the Purchaser is entitled by
reason of the Purchaser's ownership of the Shares shall be immediately subject
to this escrow, deposited with the Escrow Holder and included thereafter as
"Shares" for purposes of this Agreement and the Company's repurchase option.

     7.   Legends.  The share certificate evidencing the Shares issued hereunder
          -------                                                               
shall be endorsed with the following legend (in addition to any legend required
under applicable state securities laws):

     THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN
RESTRICTIONS UPON TRANSFER AND RIGHTS OF REPURCHASE AS SET FORTH IN AN AGREEMENT
BETWEEN THE COMPANY AND THE SHAREHOLDER, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE
SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY.

     8.   Adjustment for Stock Split.  All references to the number of Shares
          --------------------------                                         
and the purchase price of the Shares in this Agreement shall be appropriately
adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or other change in the
Shares which may be made by the Company after the date of this Agreement.

     9.   Tax Consequences.  The Purchaser has reviewed with the Purchaser's own
          ----------------                                                      
tax advisors the federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of this
investment and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  The Purchaser
is relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations
of the Company or any of its agents.  The Purchaser understands that the
Purchaser (and not the Company) shall be responsible for the Purchaser's own tax
liability that may arise as a result of this investment or the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement.  The 
<PAGE>
 
Purchaser understands that Section 83 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended (the "Code"), taxes as ordinary income the difference between the
purchase price for the Shares and the Fair Market Value of the Shares as of the
date any restrictions on the Shares lapse. In this context, "restriction"
includes the right of the Company to buy back the Shares pursuant to its
repurchase option. The Purchaser understands that the Purchaser may elect to be
taxed at the time the Shares are purchased rather than when and as the Company's
repurchase option expires by filing an election under Section 83(b) of the Code
with the I.R.S. within 30 days from the date of purchase. The form for making
this election is attached as Exhibit A-5 hereto.

          THE PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS THE PURCHASER'S SOLE
RESPONSIBILITY AND NOT THE COMPANY'S TO FILE TIMELY THE ELECTION UNDER SECTION
83(b), EVEN IF THE PURCHASER REQUESTS THE COMPANY OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES TO MAKE
THIS FILING ON THE PURCHASER'S BEHALF.

     10.  General Provisions.
          ------------------ 

          a.   This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of
California.  This Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and
the Notice of Grant, represents the entire agreement between the parties with
respect to the purchase of Common Stock by the Purchaser.  Subject to Section
15(c) of the Plan, in the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions
of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the terms and
conditions of the Plan shall prevail.  Unless otherwise defined herein, the
terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings in this
Agreement.

          b.   Any notice, demand or request required or permitted to be given
by either the Company or the Purchaser pursuant to the terms of this Agreement
shall be in writing and shall be deemed given when delivered personally or
deposited in the U.S. mail, First Class with postage prepaid, and addressed to
the parties at the addresses of the parties set forth at the end of this
Agreement or such other address as a party may request by notifying the other in
writing.

          Any notice to the Escrow Holder shall be sent to the Company's address
with a copy to the other party not sending the notice.

          c.   The rights and benefits of the Company under this Agreement shall
be transferable to any one or more persons or entities, and all covenants and
agreements hereunder shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by the
Company's successors and assigns.  The rights and obligations of the Purchaser
under this Agreement may only be assigned with the prior written consent of the
Company.

          d.   Either party's failure to enforce any provision or provisions of
this Agreement shall not in any way be construed as a waiver of any such
provision or provisions, nor prevent that party from thereafter enforcing each
and every other provision of this Agreement.  The rights granted both parties
herein are cumulative and shall not constitute a waiver of either party's right
to assert all other legal remedies available to it under the circumstances.
<PAGE>
 
          e.   The Purchaser agrees upon request to execute any further
documents or instruments necessary or desirable to carry out the purposes or
intent of this Agreement.

          f.   PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE VESTING OF SHARES
PURSUANT TO SECTION 4 HEREOF IS EARNED ONLY BY CONTINUING SERVICE AS AN EMPLOYEE
OR CONSULTANT AT THE WILL OF THE COMPANY (NOT THROUGH THE ACT OF BEING HIRED OR
PURCHASING SHARES HEREUNDER). PURCHASER FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT
THIS AGREEMENT, THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREUNDER AND THE VESTING SCHEDULE
SET FORTH HEREIN DO NOT CONSTITUTE AN EXPRESS OR IMPLIED PROMISE OF CONTINUED
ENGAGEMENT AS AN EMPLOYEE OR CONSULTANT FOR THE VESTING PERIOD, FOR ANY PERIOD,
OR AT ALL, AND SHALL NOT INTERFERE WITH PURCHASER'S RIGHT OR THE COMPANY'S RIGHT
TO TERMINATE PURCHASER'S EMPLOYMENT OR CONSULTING RELATIONSHIP AT ANY TIME, WITH
OR WITHOUT CAUSE.


     By Purchaser's signature below, Purchaser represents that he or she is
familiar with the terms and provisions of the Plan, and hereby accepts this
Agreement subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof.  Purchaser has
reviewed the Plan and this Agreement in their entirety, has had an opportunity
to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Agreement and fully
understands all provisions of this Agreement.  Purchaser agrees to accept as
binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the
Administrator upon any questions arising under the Plan or this Agreement.
Purchaser further agrees to notify the Company upon any change in the residence
indicated in the Notice of Grant.


PURCHASER:                          SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.


______________________________      By:____________________________
Signature

______________________________      Title:_________________________
Print Name
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT A-2
                                  -----------

                     ASSIGNMENT SEPARATE FROM CERTIFICATE



     FOR VALUE RECEIVED I,__________________________, hereby sell, assign and
transfer unto__________________________________________________________________
______________________________ (__________) shares of the Common Stock of
Seagate Technology, Inc. standing in my name of the books of said corporation
represented by Certificate No. _____ herewith and do hereby irrevocably
constitute and appoint _____________________________________________ to transfer
the said stock on the books of the within named corporation with full power of
substitution in the premises.

     This Stock Assignment may be used only in accordance with the Restricted
Stock Purchase Agreement between Seagate Technology, Inc. and the undersigned
dated ______________, 19__.


Dated: _______________, 19__


                                   Signature:______________________________



INSTRUCTIONS:  Please do not fill in any blanks other than the signature line.
The purpose of this assignment is to enable the Company to exercise its
"repurchase option," as set forth in the Agreement, without requiring additional
signatures on the part of the Purchaser.
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT A-3
                                  -----------

                           JOINT ESCROW INSTRUCTIONS
                           -------------------------


                                                    ______________________, 19__
                                   

Seagate Technology, Inc.
920 Disc Drive
Scotts Valley, California 95066
Attention:  Secretary

Dear Secretary:

     As Escrow Agent for both Seagate Technology, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(the "Company"), and the undersigned purchaser of stock of the Company (the
"Purchaser"), you are hereby authorized and directed to hold the documents
delivered to you pursuant to the terms of that certain Restricted Stock Purchase
Agreement ("Agreement") between the Company and the undersigned, in accordance
with the following instructions:

     1.   In the event the Company and/or any assignee of the Company (referred
to collectively for convenience herein as the "Company") exercises the Company's
repurchase option set forth in the Agreement, the Company shall give to
Purchaser and you a written notice specifying the number of shares of stock to
be purchased, the purchase price, and the time for a closing hereunder at the
principal office of the Company.  Purchaser and the Company hereby irrevocably
authorize and direct you to close the transaction contemplated by such notice in
accordance with the terms of said notice.

     2.   At the closing, you are directed (a) to date the stock assignments
necessary for the transfer in question, (b) to fill in the number of shares
being transferred, and (c) to deliver same, together with the certificate
evidencing the shares of stock to be transferred, to the Company or its
assignee, against the simultaneous delivery to you of the purchase price (by
cash, a check, or some combination thereof) for the number of shares of stock
being purchased pursuant to the exercise of the Company's repurchase option.

     3.   Purchaser irrevocably authorizes the Company to deposit with you any
certificates evidencing shares of stock to be held by you hereunder and any
additions and substitutions to said shares as defined in the Agreement.
Purchaser does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint you as Purchaser's
attorney-in-fact and agent for the term of this escrow to execute with respect
to such securities all documents necessary or appropriate to make such
securities negotiable and to complete any transaction herein contemplated,
including but not limited to the filing with any applicable state blue sky
authority of any required applications for consent to, or notice of transfer of,
the securities. Subject to the provisions of this paragraph 3, Purchaser shall
exercise all rights and privileges of a shareholder of the Company while the
stock is held by you.
<PAGE>
 
     4.   Upon written request of the Purchaser, but no more than once per
calendar year, unless the Company's repurchase option has been exercised, you
will deliver to Purchaser a certificate or certificates representing so many
shares of stock as are not then subject to the Company's repurchase option.
Within 90 days after cessation of Purchaser's continuous employment by or
services to the Company, or any parent or subsidiary of the Company, you will
deliver to Purchaser a certificate or certificates representing the aggregate
number of shares held or issued pursuant to the Agreement and not purchased by
the Company or its assignees pursuant to exercise of the Company's repurchase
option.

     5.   If at the time of termination of this escrow you should have in your
possession any documents, securities, or other property belonging to Purchaser,
you shall deliver all of the same to Purchaser and shall be discharged of all
further obligations hereunder.

     6.   Your duties hereunder may be altered, amended, modified or revoked
only by a writing signed by all of the parties hereto.

     7.   You shall be obligated only for the performance of such duties as are
specifically set forth herein and may rely and shall be protected in relying or
refraining from acting on any instrument reasonably believed by you to be
genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties.
You shall not be personally liable for any act you may do or omit to do
hereunder as Escrow Agent or as attorney-in-fact for Purchaser while acting in
good faith, and any act done or omitted by you pursuant to the advice of your
own attorneys shall be conclusive evidence of such good faith.

     8.   You are hereby expressly authorized to disregard any and all warnings
given by any of the parties hereto or by any other person or corporation,
excepting only orders or process of courts of law and are hereby expressly
authorized to comply with and obey orders, judgments or decrees of any court.
In case you obey or comply with any such order, judgment or decree, you shall
not be liable to any of the parties hereto or to any other person, firm or
corporation by reason of such compliance, notwithstanding any such order,
judgment or decree being subsequently reversed, modified, annulled, set aside,
vacated or found to have been entered without jurisdiction.

     9.   You shall not be liable in any respect on account of the identity,
authorities or rights of the parties executing or delivering or purporting to
execute or deliver the Agreement or any documents or papers deposited or called
for hereunder.

     10.  You shall not be liable for the outlawing of any rights under the
Statute of Limitations with respect to these Joint Escrow Instructions or any
documents deposited with you.

     11.  You shall be entitled to employ such legal counsel and other experts
as you may deem necessary properly to advise you in connection with your
obligations hereunder, may rely upon the advice of such counsel, and may pay
such counsel reasonable compensation therefor.

     12.  Your responsibilities as Escrow Agent hereunder shall terminate if you
shall cease to be an officer or agent of the Company or if you shall resign by
written notice to each party.  In the event of any such termination, the Company
shall appoint a successor Escrow Agent.
<PAGE>
 
     13.  If you reasonably require other or further instruments in connection
with these Joint Escrow Instructions or obligations in respect hereto, the
necessary parties hereto shall join in furnishing such instruments.

     14.  It is understood and agreed that should any dispute arise with respect
to the delivery and/or ownership or right of possession of the securities held
by you hereunder, you are authorized and directed to retain in your possession
without liability to anyone all or any part of said securities until such
disputes shall have been settled either by mutual written agreement of the
parties concerned or by a final order, decree or judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction after the time for appeal has expired and no appeal has
been perfected, but you shall be under no duty whatsoever to institute or defend
any such proceedings.

     15.  Any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing
and shall be deemed effectively given upon personal delivery or upon deposit in
the United States Post Office, by registered or certified mail with postage and
fees prepaid, addressed to each of the other parties thereunto entitled at the
following addresses or at such other addresses as a party may designate by ten
days' advance written notice to each of the other parties hereto.

          COMPANY:       Seagate Technology, Inc.
                         920 Disc Drive
                         Scotts Valley, California 95066

          PURCHASER:     _________________________________

          ESCROW AGENT:  Seagate Technology, Inc.
                         920 Disc Drive
                         Scotts Valley, California 95066
                         Attention:  Secretary

     16.  By signing these Joint Escrow Instructions, you become a party hereto
only for the purpose of said Joint Escrow Instructions; you do not become a
party to the Agreement.

     17.  This instrument shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
parties hereto, and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
<PAGE>
 
     18.  These Joint Escrow Instructions shall be governed by, and construed
and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of California.

                                    Very truly yours,

                                    SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.


                                    By:  __________________________
 

                                    Title:  _______________________


                                    PURCHASER:


                                    -------------------------------
                                              (Signature)

                                    -------------------------------
                                         (Typed or Printed Name)
ESCROW AGENT:


- ---------------------------------
Secretary
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT A-4
                                  -----------

                               CONSENT OF SPOUSE
                               -----------------


     I,____________________, spouse of___________________, have read and
approve the foregoing Agreement.  In consideration of granting of the right to
my spouse to purchase shares of Seagate Technology, Inc., as set forth in the
Agreement, I hereby appoint my spouse as my attorney-in-fact in respect to the
exercise of any rights under the Agreement and agree to be bound by the
provisions of the Agreement insofar as I may have any rights in said Agreement
or any shares issued pursuant thereto under the community property laws or
similar laws relating to marital property in effect in the state of our
residence as of the date of the signing of the foregoing Agreement.

Dated:_______________, 19____


                                    ______________________________
<PAGE>
 
                                  EXHIBIT A-5
                                  -----------
                         ELECTION UNDER SECTION 83(b)
                         ----------------------------
                     OF THE INTERNAL REVENUE CODE OF 1986
                     ------------------------------------

The undersigned taxpayer hereby elects, pursuant to the above-referenced Federal
Tax Code, to include in taxpayer's gross income for the current taxable year,
the amount of any compensation taxable to taxpayer in connection with his
receipt of the property described below:

1.   The name, address, taxpayer identification number and taxable year of the
undersigned are as follows:

NAME        :        TAXPAYER:              SPOUSE:

ADDRESS:    :

IDENTIFICATION NO.:  TAXPAYER:              SPOUSE:

TAXABLE YEAR:

2.   The property with respect to which the election is made is described as
     follows:  __________ shares (the "Shares") of the Common Stock of Seagate
     Technology, Inc. (the "Company").

3.   The date on which the property was transferred is: ______________, 19__.

4.   The property is subject to the following restrictions:

     The Shares may be repurchased by the Company, or its assignee, on certain
     events. This right lapses with regard to a portion of the Shares based on
     the continued performance of services by the taxpayer over time.

5.   The fair market value at the time of transfer, determined without regard to
     any restriction other than a restriction which by its terms will never
     lapse, of such property is:
     $_______________.

6.   The amount (if any) paid for such property is:

     $_______________.

The undersigned has submitted a copy of this statement to the person for whom
the services were performed in connection with the undersigned's receipt of the
above-described property.  The transferee of such property is the person per
forming the services in connection with the transfer of said property.
The undersigned understands that the foregoing election may not be revoked
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
except with the consent of the Commissioner.
- ------------------------------------------- 

Dated:  _______________, 19__         ___________________________________
                                      _________________________, Taxpayer

The undersigned spouse of taxpayer joins in this election.

Dated:  _______________, 19__         ___________________________________
                                      Spouse of Taxpayer
 

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.14
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT AND RELEASE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.14

                       SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND RELEASE

     This Separation Agreement and Release ("Agreement") is made by and between
Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company") and Al Shugart ("Employee").


                                    RECITALS
                                    --------

     1.   Employee was employed by the Company as its Chief Executive Officer
and Chairman of its Board of Directors, and was a member of the Board of
Directors of the Company and an officer and/or director of certain of the
Company's subsidiaries.

     2.   The Company and Employee (collectively referred to as "the Parties")
wish to document the severance and other benefits the Company has agreed to pay
Employee in connection with (i) Employee's termination as Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company and for his
resignation as a member of the Company's Board of Directors and of each of its
subsidiaries and other related companies upon which he serves as a director
and/or officer and (ii) the consulting arrangement and restrictive covenants
that will be in effect for Employee following such termination.

     NOW THEREFORE, in connection with the promises made herein, the Company and
Employee hereby agree as follows:

     1.   Termination Date.  Employee's termination as Chief Executive Officer
          ----------------                                                    
and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company, and as an employee of the
Company and of each of its subsidiaries upon which he serves as a director
and/or officer is effective as of July 19, 1998 (the "Termination Date").

     2.   Payment of Salary; Benefits.  Employee will receive his normal salary
          ---------------------------                                          
through the Termination Date and all regular and mandatory payroll deductions
will be taken from Employee's final paycheck.  Employee's participation in the
Company's employee benefit programs shall cease as of the Termination Date,
except to the limited extent provided in Sections 5 and 6 below.

     3.   Severance Payments.  Employee will receive $750,000 per annum over the
          ------------------                                                    
three-year period beginning July 20, 1998 and ending July 19, 2001.  These
payments will be made in equal installments at monthly intervals over the three-
year period, with the first payment to be made as of August 31, 1998.  All
payments will be subject to the Company's collection of applicable withholding
taxes.  However, all such payments will immediately terminate in the event of a
material breach of any of Employee's covenants under Section 9 of this
Agreement.

     4.   Restricted Stock.  In November 1995, Employee received a restricted
          ----------------                                                   
stock award for a total of 300,000 shares of the Company's common stock.  As of
the Termination Date, 145,000 of those shares were unvested.  All of Employee's
unvested shares shall vest (the Company's repurchase right shall lapse) on the
Effective Date of this Agreement (as defined in Section 28 below).  At the time
of 
<PAGE>
 
such vesting, Employee will recognize immediate taxable income equal to the fair
market value of those previously unvested shares, less the issue price Employee
paid for such shares, and Employee agrees to satisfy the applicable withholding
taxes on that income before the certificates for the shares will be released.
Employee may satisfy the withholding tax obligation by directing the Company to
withhold from the vested shares that number of shares having a fair market value
equal to the amount required to be withheld, subject to such other limitations
and conditions as the Company may impose in connection with applicable legal and
accounting considerations.

     5.   Stock Options.
          ------------- 

          (a) Employee currently holds outstanding stock options for 1,060,000
shares of the Company's common stock ("Company Options") and for 100,000 shares
of the common stock of Seagate Software ("Seagate Software Options").  As of the
Termination Date, the Company Options were exercisable for a total of 440,000
shares, and the Seagate Software Options were exercisable for a total of 12,000
shares.  The specific breakdown of Employee's vested and unvested stock options
as of the Termination Date is also included in attached Schedule A.  Subject to
Section 5(b) below, Employee's Company Options, to the extent vested and
exercisable as of the Termination Date, shall remain exercisable and may be
exercised at any time during the Consultancy Period (as defined in Section 8
below) and for the ninety (90)-day period thereafter, subject to the original
term of such Company Options.  To the extent Employee's Company Options are
unvested as of the Termination Date, the Company Options shall continue to vest
and may be exercised (to the extent vested) during the Consultancy Period (as
defined in Section 8 below) and for the ninety (90)-day period thereafter,
subject to the original term of such Company Option.  To the extent Employee's
Seagate Software Options were vested immediately prior to the Termination Date,
Employee agrees to exercise such vested Seagate Software Options on or before
August 18, 1998; to the extent such vested Seagate Software Options are not
exercised on or before August 18, 1998, they shall be cancelled without
consideration to Employee. To the extent Employee's Seagate Software Options
were unvested immediately prior to the Termination Date, such unvested Seagate
Software Options shall become fully vested and exercisable as of the Effective
Date and may be exercised at any time during the Consultancy Period and for the
thirty (30)-day period thereafter, subject to the original term of such Seagate
Software Options. Employee's Company Options and Seagate Software Options may be
exercised by Employee consistent with the procedures available to him prior to
the Termination Date.  To the extent Employee's options are non-qualified
options under the federal income tax laws, Employee will recognize compensation
income in connection with his exercise of those options, and agrees to satisfy
all applicable withholding taxes associated with each such exercise.

          (b) The Company previously established a deferred bonus amount with
respect to certain of Employee's Company Options.  Such bonus amounts are
reflected in the attached Schedule A. In consideration of Employee's agreement
to exercise certain vested Company Options as provided herein, deferred bonus
amounts attributable to Employee's Company Options that were unvested
immediately prior to the Termination Date shall be available to reduce the
exercise price of such unvested Company Options to the extent such Options vest
and are exercised in accordance with Section 5(a) above.  In consideration of
Employee's eligibility to receive deferred bonus amounts pursuant to the
preceding sentence, Employee agrees to exercise on or before October 17, 1998,
all of his Company Options that (i) were vested immediately prior to the
Termination Date, and (ii) have a per 

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
share exercise price at or below $17.00; to the extent such Options are not
exercised on or before October 17, 1998, they shall be cancelled without
consideration to Employee.

     6.   Benefits.
          -------- 

          (a) The Company shall continue to provide Employee, for thirty-six
(36) months after the Termination Date, medical and group insurance benefits or
such comparable alternative medical and insurance benefits as the Company may,
in its discretion, determine to be sufficient to satisfy its obligations to
Employee under this Agreement, which are at least as favorable as the most
favorable medical and group insurance benefits available to the Company's senior
executives as of the Termination Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
Employee is covered under any medical or group insurance plan(s) provided by a
subsequent employer, then the amount of coverage required to be provided by the
Company hereunder shall be reduced by the amount of coverage provided by the
subsequent employer's medical or group insurance plan(s).

          (b) Following Employee's request on or after the Effective Date, the
Company shall furnish Employee during the Consultancy Period (as defined in
Section 8) with an automobile of Employee's choosing, provided that the retail
value of such automobile shall not exceed $50,000.  The Company shall remain the
legal owner of the automobile and will be responsible for license, insurance and
registration thereof.  All other costs and expenses relating to the use and
maintenance of such automobile shall be the sole responsibility of Employee.
Employee agrees to return the automobile to the Company's corporate headquarters
in Scotts Valley, California, or such other place as the Parties may mutually
agree, on or before the end of the Consultancy Period.

     7.   Indemnification.  Employee shall be entitled to indemnification, in
          ---------------                                                    
accordance with the applicable provisions of the Company's articles of
incorporation and bylaws, against all expense, liability and loss (including
attorneys' fees and settlement payments) that Employee may incur by reason of
any action, suit or proceeding arising from or relating to the performance of
Employee's duties as an officer or director of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries.  The Company agrees to maintain directors and officers coverage
for Employee's benefit during the Consultancy Period (as defined in Section 8
below).

     8.   Consulting.  As a condition to, and in consideration for, the
          ----------                                                   
severance benefits Employee is to receive herein, Employee agrees to make
himself available to perform consulting services reasonably requested of him
during the three (3)-year period beginning July 20, 1998 and ending July 19,
2001 (the "Consultancy Period").  Employee agrees to make himself reasonably
available to render up to 30 hours of consulting services per each of the
Company's fiscal quarters during the Consultancy Period, provided that such
consulting services do not materially conflict with Employee's then-existing
activities or commitments.  All assignments will come from the Chief Executive
Officer of the Company, and Employee will report directly to such person with
respect to each assignment.  Should Employee be requested to render more than
the required 30 hours of consulting services per fiscal quarter, then Employee
will be compensated for those additional hours at an hourly rate to be agreed
upon by Employee and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company at the time such
consulting services are to be rendered.  Employee will be reimbursed for all
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in rendering such consulting services
upon Employee's submission of appropriate documentation for those expenses.
During the Consultancy Period, Employee will not make any representations to any
third party 

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
that he is an officer or employee of the Company and, following his resignation
as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, a director of the Company. Any
proprietary information or other confidential information of the Company to
which he may have access in the performance of his consulting services will be
held in confidence and will not be disclosed to any third party otherwise
directly or indirectly used by Employee, except to the extent necessary to
perform his consulting services.

     9.   Employee Covenants.  As a condition to, and a consideration for, the
          ------------------                                                  
severance and other benefits Employee is to receive herein, Employee agrees
that:

          (a) he will not, at any time during the three (3)-year period
     beginning July 20, 1998 and ending July 19, 2001, directly or indirectly,
     whether for his own account or as an employee, director, consultant or
     advisor, provide services to any business enterprise that is at the time in
     competition with any of the Company's or any of its subsidiaries' existing
     product lines or business activities as of the Effective Date and that is
     located geographically in an area where the Company or any of its
     subsidiaries maintains substantial business activities, unless Employee
     obtains the prior written consent of the Company's Chief Executive Officer,
     or

          (b) he will not, at any time during the three (3)-year period
     beginning July 20, 1998 and ending July 19, 2001, directly or indirectly
     solicit any individuals to leave the Company's (or any of its
     subsidiaries') employ for any reason or interfere in any other manner with
     the employment relationships at the time existing between the Company (or
     any of its subsidiaries) and its current or prospective employees;
     provided, however, that Employee shall not be considered to have interfered
     with existing employment relationships in the event he responds to good
     faith inquiries initiated other than by Employee, or

          (c) he will not, at any time during the three (3)-year period
     beginning July 20, 1998 and ending July 19, 2001, induce or attempt to
     induce any customer, supplier, distributor, licensor, licensee or other
     business relation of the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) to cease
     doing business with the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) or in any way
     interfere with the existing business relationship between any such
     customer, supplier, distributor, licensor, licensee or other business
     relation and the Company (or any of its subsidiaries), or

          (d) he will not, at any time during the four and one-half (4 1/2)-year
     period beginning July 20, 1998 and ending January 19, 2002, disparage,
     defame or slander the Company (or any of its subsidiaries) or any of their
     (i) officers (within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, hereinafter "Officers") or directors as
     of the Termination Date, (ii) then-existing directors, or (iii) any of its
     products or services, to any one, including but not limited to any past,
     present or prospective customers.  The foregoing sentence is not applicable
     to comments Employee makes to his immediate family.  For such four and one-
     half (4 1/2) year-period the Company's Board of Directors and its current
     Officers shall refrain from disparagement, defamation or slander of
     Employee.

          (e) he will resign as a member of the boards of the Company's
     subsidiaries (as applicable) on or before delivery of a fully executed copy
     of this Agreement and will transfer to 

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
     the Company (or its designee) any and all shares he currently owns or holds
     in the Company's foreign subsidiaries (such transfer to occur within
     fifteen (15) days of the Effective Date). Employee shall resign as a member
     of the Company's Board of Directors as of the Effective Date.

     Employee acknowledges that monetary damages may not be sufficient to
compensate the Company for any economic loss that may be incurred by reason of
Employee's breach of the foregoing restrictive covenants.  Accordingly, in the
event of any such breach, the Company will, in addition to the cessation of the
severance benefits provided Employee under this Agreement and any remedies
available to the Company at law, be entitled to obtain equitable relief in the
form of an injunction precluding Employee from continuing to engage in such
breach.

     In the event of any material breach by the Company of  its obligation to
Employee under Section 9(d) above, the Company shall pay Employee liquidated
damages in the amount of $100,000 for each such breach.

     10.  Confidential Information.  Employee shall continue to maintain the
          ------------------------                                          
confidentiality of all confidential and proprietary information of the Company.

     11.  Payment of Salary.  The Company represents and Employee acknowledges
          -----------------                                                   
and represents that the Company has paid (or will pay pursuant to the terms of
the applicable plan or program) all salary, wages, bonuses, commissions and any
and all other benefits due to Employee through the Employee's Termination Date.

     12.  Release of Claims.  Employee agrees that the foregoing consideration
          -----------------                                                   
represents settlement in full of all outstanding obligations owed to Employee by
the Company or any subsidiary of the Company.  Employee and the Company, on
behalf of themselves and their respective heirs, agents, representatives,
immediate family members, executors, successors, and assigns, hereby fully and
forever release each other and their respective heirs, agents, directors,
employees, attorneys, investors, shareholders, administrators, affiliates,
divisions, subsidiaries, parents, predecessor and successor corporations, and
assigns, and agree not to sue or otherwise institute or cause to be instituted
any legal or administrative proceedings concerning, any claim, duty, obligation
or cause of action relating to any matters of any kind, whether presently known
or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, that either of them may possess against
the other arising from any omissions, acts or facts that have occurred up until
and including the Effective Date of this Agreement including, without
limitation,

          (a)  any and all claims relating to or arising from Employee's
relationship with the Company or any subsidiary of the Company and the
termination of that relationship;

          (b)  any and all claims relating to, or arising from, Employee's right
to purchase, or actual purchase of shares of stock of the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company, including, without limitation, any claims for fraud,
misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of duty under applicable
state corporate law, and securities fraud under any state or federal law;

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
          (c)  any and all claims for wrongful discharge of employment;
termination in violation of public policy; discrimination; breach of contract,
both express and implied; breach of a covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
both express and implied; promissory estoppel; negligent or intentional
infliction of emotional distress; negligent or intentional misrepresentation;
negligent or intentional interference with contract or prospective economic
advantage; unfair business practices; defamation; libel; slander; negligence;
personal injury; invasion of privacy; false imprisonment; and conversion;

          (d)  any and all claims for violation of any federal, state or
municipal statute, including, but not limited to, Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Age Discrimination in Employment
Act of 1967, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the Fair Labor
Standards Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, The Worker
Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, Older Workers Benefit Protection
Act; the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, and the California Labor
Code;

          (e)  any and all claims for violation of the federal, or any state,
constitution;

          (f)  any and all claims arising out of any other laws and regulations
relating to employment or employment discrimination;  and

          (g)  any and all claims for attorneys' fees and costs.

Each of the Parties agrees that the release set forth in this Section shall be
and remain in effect in all respects as a complete general release as to the
matters released.  This release does not extend to any obligations incurred
under this Agreement.  Each of the Parties acknowledges and agrees that any
breach of this Section shall construe a material breach of the Agreement and in
the case of a breach by Employee, shall entitle the Company immediately to
recover the monetary consideration discussed in Section 3 above.  If any legal
action or other legal proceeding relating to the enforcement of any provision of
this Agreement is brought by either Party hereto, the prevailing Party shall be
entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees, costs and disbursements (in
addition to any other relief to which the prevailing Party may be entitled).

     13.  Acknowledgment of Waiver of Claims under ADEA.  Employee acknowledges
          ---------------------------------------------                        
that he is waiving and releasing any rights he may have under the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 ("ADEA") and that this waiver and
release is knowing and voluntary.  Employee and the Company agree that this
waiver and release does not apply to any rights or claims that may arise under
the ADEA after the Effective Date of this Agreement.  Employee acknowledges that
the consideration given for this waiver and release Agreement is in addition to
anything of value to which Employee was already entitled.  Employee further
acknowledges that he has been advised by this writing that (a) he should consult
with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement; (b) he has at least twenty-
                 -----                                                        
one (21) days within which to consider this Agreement; (c) he has seven (7) days
following the execution of this Agreement by the Parties to revoke the
Agreement; and (d) this Agreement shall not be effective until the revocation
period has expired.  Any revocation should be in writing and delivered to Tom
Mulvaney, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Seagate Technology, Inc.,
920 Disc Drive, Scotts Valley, CA  95066, by close of business on the seventh
day from the date that Employee signs this Agreement.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
     14.  Civil Code Section 1542.  Employee and the Company each represent that
          -----------------------                                               
neither is aware of any claim other than the claims that are released by this
Agreement.  Employee and the Company each acknowledge that they have been
advised by legal counsel and are familiar with the provisions of California
Civil Code Section 1542, which provides as follows:

          A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH 
          THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN 
          HIS FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, 
          WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM MUST HAVE MATERIALLY 
          AFFECTED HIS SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.

     Employee and the Company, being aware of said code section, agree to
expressly waive any rights they may have thereunder, as well as under any other
federal or state statute or common law principles of similar effect.

     15.  No Pending or Future Lawsuits.  Each Party represents to the other
          -----------------------------                                     
that he or it has no lawsuits, claims, or actions pending in his or its name, or
on behalf of any other person or entity, against the other or any other person
or entity referred to herein.  Each Party also represents to the other that as
of the Effective Date, he or it does not have any basis for, and does not intend
to bring any claims on his or its own behalf or on behalf of any other person or
entity against the other or any other person or entity referred to herein.

     16.  Application for Employment.  Employee understands and agrees that, as
          --------------------------                                           
a condition of this Agreement, he shall not be entitled to any employment with
the Company, its parents, its subsidiaries, or any successor, and he hereby
waives any right, or alleged right, of employment or re-employment with the
Company, its parents, its subsidiaries and any successor.  Subject to the terms
of this Agreement, Employee also waives any right to work as an independent
contractor for the Company, its subsidiaries, its parents and any successor.
Employee further agrees that he will not apply for employment with the Company,
its subsidiaries, its parents, or related companies, or any successor and will
not apply to work as an independent contractor for the Company, its parents, its
subsidiaries or any successor.

     17.  Confidentiality.  The Parties agree to maintain in complete confidence
          ---------------                                                       
the contents and terms of this Agreement, and the consideration for this
Agreement.  The Parties may disclose Employee's status as a consultant to the
Company and  agree to disclose the contents and terms of this Agreement only to
Employee's immediate family and to those attorneys, accountants, tribunals and
governmental entities who have a reasonable need to know (or as required by
applicable law or governmental agency or tribunal) the contents and terms of
this Agreement to prevent disclosure of the contents and terms of this Agreement
to other third parties.

     18.  No Cooperation.  Employee and the Company agree that he or it will not
          --------------                                                        
counsel or assist any attorneys or their clients in the presentation or
prosecution of any lawsuits, disputes, claims, charges, or complaints by any
third party against the other (including in the case of the Company any
subsidiary of the Company, and/or any officer, director, employee, agent,
representative, shareholder or attorney of the Company or any subsidiary in his,
her or its capacity as such on behalf of the Company or any 

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
subsidiary) unless under a subpoena, court order or otherwise required by law to
do so. Nothing in this Section 18 shall preclude Employee from exercising his
rights as a stockholder of the Company.

     19.  Tax Consequences.  The Company makes no representations or warranties
          ----------------                                                     
with respect to the tax consequences of the payment of any sums to Employee
under the terms of this Agreement. Employee agrees and understands that he is
responsible for payment, if any, of local, state and/or federal taxes on the
sums paid hereunder by the Company and any penalties or assessments thereon.

     20.  Costs.  The Parties shall each bear their own costs, expert fees,
          -----                                                            
attorneys' fees and other fees incurred in connection with this Agreement.

     21.  Non-Binding Mediation.  The Parties shall make a good faith attempt to
          ---------------------                                                 
resolve any dispute or claim arising out of or related to this Agreement through
negotiation.  In the event that any dispute or claim arising out of or related
to this Agreement is not settled by the Parties, the Parties will attempt in
good faith to resolve such dispute or claim by non-binding mediation in Santa
Cruz, California to be conducted by JAMS-Endispute or such other mediator as the
parties shall mutually agree.  The mediation shall be held within thirty (30)
days of the request therefor.  The costs of mediation shall be shared equally by
the Parties to the mediation.

     22.  Authority.  The Company represents and warrants that the undersigned
          ---------                                                           
has the authority to act on behalf of the Company and to bind the Company and
all who may claim through it to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Employee represents and warrants that he has the capacity to act on his own
behalf and on behalf of all who might claim through him to bind them to the
terms and conditions of this Agreement.  Each Party warrants and represents that
there are no liens or claims of lien or assignments in law or equity or
otherwise of or against any of the claims or causes of action released herein.

     23.  No Representations.  Each Party represents that it has had the
          ------------------                                            
opportunity to consult with an attorney, and has carefully read and understands
the scope and effect of the provisions of this Agreement.  Neither party has
relied upon any representations or statements made by the other party hereto
which are not specifically set forth in this Agreement.

     24.  Severability.  In the event that any provision hereof becomes or is
          ------------                                                       
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable or
void, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect without said
provision.

     25.  Entire Agreement.  This Agreement represent the entire agreement and
          ----------------                                                    
understanding between the Company and Employee concerning the subject matter
herein, and supersede and replace any and all prior agreements and
understandings.

     26.  No Oral Modification.  This Agreement may only be amended in writing
          --------------------                                                
signed by Employee and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company.

     27.  Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by the internal
          -------------                                                   
substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the State of California.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
     28.  Effective Date.  This Agreement is effective eight days after it has
          --------------                                                      
been signed by both Parties (the "Effective Date").

     29.  Office Space.  Employee agrees that he will vacate his current office
          ------------                                                         
at the Company's corporate headquarters in Scotts Valley, California by August
15, 1998.

     30.  Paintings.  Employee hereby conveys, without consideration to
          ---------                                                    
Employee, all right, title and interest in all paintings previously provided to
the Company and its subsidiaries by Rita Shugart.

     31.  Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, and
          ------------                                                      
each counterpart shall have the same force and effect as an original and shall
constitute an effective, binding agreement on the part of each of the
undersigned.

     32.  Voluntary Execution of Agreement.  This Agreement is executed
          --------------------------------                             
voluntarily and without any duress or undue influence on the part or behalf of
the Parties hereto, with the full intent of releasing all claims.  The Parties
acknowledge that:

          (a)  They have read this Agreement;

          (b) They have been represented in the preparation, negotiation, and
execution of this Agreement by legal counsel of their own choice or that they
have voluntarily declined to seek such counsel;

          (c) They understand the terms and consequences of this Agreement and
of the releases it contains;

          (d) They are fully aware of the legal and binding effect of this
Agreement.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have executed this Agreement on the
respective dates set forth below.

                                       SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.



Dated: 7/29/98                         By  /s/ Stephen J. Luezo
      ________________                    __________________________________
 

                                       AL SHUGART, an individual



Dated: 7/29/98                          /s/ Al Shugart   
      ________________                 _____________________________________
                                       Al Shugart

                                      -9-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>PORTIONS OF THE 1998 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                            EXHIBIT 13.1
SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
FISCAL YEAR ENDED             
In millions, except              July 3,    June 27,   June 28,   June 30,    July 1,
per share data                    1998       1997        1996       1995       1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>         <C>
Revenue                          $6,819     $8,940     $8,588     $7,256      $5,865
 
Gross margin                        989      2,022      1,581      1,373       1,171
 
Income (loss) from operations      (686)       858        287        459         473
 
Income (loss) before 
 extraordinary gain                (530)       658        213        313         330
 
Net income (loss)                  (530)       658        213        319         330
 
Basic income (loss) per share 
 before extraordinary gain        (2.17)      2.82       1.07       1.64        1.76
 
Basic net income (loss) per 
 share                            (2.17)      2.82       1.07       1.67        1.76
 
Diluted income (loss) per share
 before extraordinary gain        (2.17)      2.62        .97       1.44        1.56
 
Diluted net income (loss) per 
 share                            (2.17)      2.62        .97       1.47        1.56
 
Total assets                      5,645      6,723      5,240      4,900       4,308
 
Long-term debt, less current 
 portion                            704        702        798      1,066       1,177
 
Stockholders' equity             $2,937     $3,476     $2,466     $1,936      $1,635

Number of shares used in per 
 share computations:

     Basic                        243.6      233.6      199.7      190.6       186.9

     Diluted                      243.6      257.9      236.1      244.7       235.8
</TABLE> 

The 1998 results of operations include a $347 million restructuring charge, a
$223 million write-off of in-process research and development incurred primarily
in connection with the acquisition of Quinta Corporation, a $76 million charge
for mark-to-market adjustments on certain of the Company's foreign currency
forward exchange contracts and a $22 million reduction in the charge recorded in
1997 as a result of the adverse judgment in the Amstrad PLC litigation (see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations").  The 1997 results of operations include a $153 million charge as a
result of the adverse judgment in the Amstrad PLC litigation.  The 1996 results
of operations include a $242 million restructuring charge as a result of the
merger with Conner Peripherals, Inc. and a $99 million write-off of in-process
research and development incurred in connection with the acquisition of software
companies.  The 1995 results of operations include a $73 million write-off of
in-process research and development incurred in connection with business
acquisitions.  Prior periods have been restated to reflect the merger with
Conner Peripherals, Inc. in February 1996 on a pooling of interests basis, a
two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a stock dividend, in November
1996, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128 ("SFAS 128"),
"Earnings Per Share," adopted in the second quarter of fiscal 1998.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
QUARTERLY/1998
Unaudited, in millions except 
per share data                         1st        2nd        3rd        4th
________________________________________________________________________________
Revenue                               $1,896     $1,673     $1,675     $1,575

Gross margin                             295        192        204        298
 
Income (loss) from operations           (200)      (277)      (221)        12
 
Net income (loss)                       (240)      (183)      (129)        22
 
Net income (loss) per share:

  Basic                                 (.98)      (.75)      (.53)       .09

  Diluted                               (.98)      (.75)      (.53)       .09

Price range per share:

  Low                                 34-1/8    18-7/16     17-3/4    19-7/16

  High                               $45-3/4    $40-5/8   $27-3/16    $29-5/8

The results for the first quarter include a $216 million write-off of in-process
research and development incurred primarily in connection with the acquisition
of Quinta Corporation and a $63 million charge for mark-to-market adjustments on
certain of the Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts.  The
results for the second quarter include a $205 million restructuring charge, a
$22 million reduction in the $153 million charge recorded in 1997 as a result of
the adverse judgment in the Amstrad PLC litigation (See "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations") and a $13
million charge for mark-to-market adjustments on certain of the Company's
foreign currency forward exchange contracts.  The results for the third quarter
include a $142 million restructuring charge.  The results for the fourth quarter
include a $7 million write-off of in-process research and development incurred
in connection with the acquisition of Eastman Software Storage Management Group,
Inc. in June 1998.  Prior periods have been restated to reflect SFAS 128,
"Earnings Per Share," adopted in the second quarter of fiscal 1998.

QUARTERLY/1997
Unaudited, in millions except 
per share data                        1st         2nd           3rd        4th
________________________________________________________________________________
Revenue                              $2,061     $ 2,400       $ 2,502    $1,977

Gross margin                            393         541           631       457
 
Income from operations                  174         289           347        48
 
Net income                              129         213           257        59
 
Net income per share:

  Basic                                 .61         .94          1.04       .24

  Diluted                               .53         .84          1.01       .23

Price range per share:

  Low                               18-1/16      25-7/8        37-3/8    32-1/2

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
  High                             $29-5/16     $42-3/4       $56-1/4   $54-1/4

The results for the first quarter include the reversal of restructuring charges
of $10 million related to the completion of certain aspects of the restructuring
in connection with the merger with Conner Peripherals, Inc. at a lower cost than
originally estimated.  The results for the third quarter include compensation
expense and in-process research and development charges of $13 million and $3
million, respectively, in connection with additional amounts paid with respect
to the June 1996 acquisition of Holistic Systems Ltd.  The results for the
fourth quarter include a $153 million charge as a result of the adverse judgment
in the Amstrad PLC litigation (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations") and restructuring charges of $3
million related to certain software operations.  Prior periods have been
restated to reflect a two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a stock
dividend, in November 1996 and SFAS 128, "Earnings Per Share," adopted in the
second quarter of fiscal 1998.

STOCK AND DIVIDEND INFORMATION

     The Company's common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol "SEG." The price range per share, reflected in the above tables, is the
highest and lowest sale prices for the Company's stock as reported by the New
York Stock Exchange during each quarter. The Company's present policy is to
retain its earnings to finance future growth. The Company has never paid cash
dividends and has no present intention to pay cash dividends. At July 3, 1998,
there were 7,821 stockholders of record of the Company's common stock.

MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the five-year
summary of selected financial data and the Company's consolidated financial
statements and the notes thereto. All references to years represent fiscal years
unless otherwise noted. In November 1996, the Company effected a two-for-one
stock split in the form of a stock dividend. Prior periods have been restated to
reflect the stock split.

CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     Certain statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A"),
elsewhere in this Annual Report to Stockholders and in the Company's Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the Fiscal Year Ended July 3, 1998 into which this MD&A
is incorporated are forward-looking statements based on current expectations,
and entail various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Certain of these risks and uncertainties are set forth below under "Foreign
Currency Risks," "Factors Affecting Future Operating Results," elsewhere in this
MD&A, elsewhere in this Annual Report to Stockholders and in the Company's
Annual Report on Form 10-K for 1998.  These forward-looking statements include
the statements relating to continued price erosion in the first paragraph under
"Results of Operations - 1998 vs 1997," the statements relating to continued
expansion into complementary markets and write-offs of in-process research and
development in the sixth paragraph under "Results of Operations - 1998 vs 1997,"
the statements relating to the 1999 effective tax rate in the tenth paragraph
under "Results of Operations - 1998 vs 1997," the statements relating to the IRS
adjustments in the last paragraph under "Results of Operations - 1998 vs 1997,"
the statements regarding the decline in value of the Thai baht and Malaysian
ringgit relative to the U.S. dollar and future movements in currency exchange
rates under "Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Risk," the
statements regarding capital expenditures in the third paragraph under
"Liquidity and Capital Resources," the statements regarding continued expansion
into complementary markets in the sixth paragraph under "Liquidity and Capital
Resources," the statements regarding the sufficiency of the Company's resources
in the last paragraph under "Liquidity and Capital Resources," the statements
under "Factors Affecting Future Operating Results," and the statements in the
Litigation note to the consolidated financial statements, among others.

BUSINESS

     Seagate operates in a single industry segment by designing, manufacturing
and marketing products for storage, retrieval and management of data on computer
and data communications systems.  These products include disc drives and disc
drive components, tape drives and software.

     The Company designs, manufactures and markets a broad line of rigid
magnetic disc drives for use in 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
computer systems ranging from desktop personal computers to workstations and
supercomputers as well as in multimedia applications such as digital video and
video-on-demand. The Company sells its products to original equipment
manufacturers for inclusion in their computer systems or subsystems, and to
distributors, resellers, dealers and retailers. In addition, the Company markets
a broad line of Travan, Digital Audio Tape (DAT) and Advanced Intelligent Tape
(AIT) products. These products are dedicated back-up storage peripherals
designed to meet the needs of market segments ranging from desktop PCs to
midrange servers.

     The Company has pursued a strategy of vertical integration and accordingly
designs and manufactures rigid disc drive components including recording heads,
discs, substrates, motors and custom integrated circuits. It also assembles
certain of the key subassemblies for use in its products including printed
circuit board and head stack assemblies.

     The Company has also invested in, and currently intends to continue
investigating opportunities to invest in software activities. The Company
anticipates that users of computer systems will increasingly rely upon
client/server network computing environments and believes that as this reliance
increases, users will demand software that more efficiently and securely stores,
manages and accesses data and transforms it into usable information. As such,
the Company has broadened its core competencies to include software products and
technologies to meet these requirements.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth certain items in the Company's Consolidated
Statements of Operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the three years
in the period ended July 3, 1998.
 
                                                     Percentage of Revenue
                                                     ---------------------
                                                       1998   1997   1996
 ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Revenue                                                100%   100%   100%
 
Cost of sales                                           85     77     82
                                                      ----   ----   ----
Gross margin                                            15     23     18
 
Product development                                      9      5      5
 
Marketing and administrative                             7      6      6
 
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles           1      -      -
 
In-process research and development                      3      -      1
 
Restructuring                                            5      -      3
 
Unusual items                                            -      2      -
                                                      ----   ----   ----
 
Income (loss) from operations                          (10)    10      3
 
Other income, net                                        -      -      1
                                                      ----   ----   ----

Income (loss) before income taxes                      (10)    10      4
 
Benefit (provision) for income taxes                     2     (3)    (1)
                                                      ----   ----   ----
 
Net income (loss)                                       (8)%    7%     3%
                                                      ====   ====   ====   

1998 VS 1997    Revenue in 1998 was 24% lower than that reported in 1997. The
decrease in revenue from the prior year was due primarily to a continuing
decline in the average unit sales prices of the Company's products as a result
of intensely competitive market conditions, a lower level of unit shipments
reflecting continuing
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
weakness in demand for the Company's disc drive products and a shift in mix away
from the Company's higher priced products. The Company expects that price
erosion in the data storage industry will continue for the foreseeable future.
This competition and continuing price erosion may adversely affect the Company's
results of operations in any given quarter and such an adverse effect often
cannot be anticipated until late in any given quarter.

     The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue from the prior year
was primarily due to a continuing decline in the average unit sales prices of
the Company's products, particularly its desktop products, as a result of
intensely competitive market conditions, lower revenue and a shift in mix away
from the Company's higher performance disc drives, partially offset by a
reduction in material and scrap costs per unit, increased consolidated revenue
and an increase in revenue of the Company's Seagate Software, Inc. subsidiary
("Seagate Software") which subsidiary's products generally have higher gross
margins.  Excluding the gross margin of Seagate Software, the Company's gross
margins would have been 11% and 22% in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Product development expenses increased by $126 million (27%) compared with
1997, primarily due to increases in salaries and related costs, increases in
allocated occupancy costs, payments or accruals for such payments to former
shareholders of Quinta Corporation ("Quinta"), acquired by the Company in August
1997, for achievement of certain product development milestones, and an overall
increase in the Company's product development efforts.  The Company's product
development activities include efforts to improve its time-to-market
performance, the development of ultra-high capacity disc drive technologies,
including a new optically-assisted Winchester (OAW) technology being developed
by Quinta and development efforts related to its software and tape drive
products.  These increases in expenses were partially offset by substantially
reduced employee profit sharing and executive bonuses in 1998.

     Marketing and administrative expenses increased by $9 million (2%) compared
with 1997, primarily due to increases in advertising and promotion expenses,
increased marketing and administrative expenses related to the Company's
software products and services, particularly those of Seagate Software's
Information Management Group and increases in salaries and related costs. These
increases in expenses were partially offset by decreases in allocated occupancy
costs, substantially reduced employee profit sharing and executive bonuses in
1998, lower legal expenses and a reduction in the provision for bad debts. The
Company expects to take an $8 million to $10 million charge in the first quarter
of fiscal 1999 associated with a separation agreement entered into between Alan
F. Shugart, the Company's former Chief Executive Officer, and the Company in
July 1998.

     Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles decreased by $10 million
(20%) compared with 1997, primarily due to the inclusion in amortization expense
of the write-down of goodwill and the write-offs and write-downs in 1997 of
certain intangible assets related to past acquisitions of software companies
whose value had become permanently impaired and the resultant subsequent
reduction in amortization expense, partially offset by additional amortization
related to goodwill and intangibles arising from the Company's additional
investment in Dragon Systems, Inc. ("Dragon") in September 1997.

     Of the $223 million charge for the write-off of in-process research and
development, $214 million was a result of the August 1997 acquisition of Quinta
and $7 million was a result of the June 1998 acquisition of Eastman Software
Storage Management Group, Inc. ("ESSMG"). In April and June 1997, Seagate
invested an aggregate of $20 million to acquire approximately ten percent (10%)
of Quinta's stock.  In August 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of
Quinta.  Pursuant to the purchase agreement with Quinta, the shareholders of
Quinta, other than Seagate, received cash payments aggregating $230 million upon
the closing of the acquisition and were eligible to receive additional cash
payments aggregating $95 million upon the achievement of certain product
development and early production milestones. Of the $95 million, $19 million was
paid or accrued in fiscal 1998. In July 1998, the Company and Quinta amended the
purchase agreement to eliminate the product development and early production
milestones and provide that the former shareholders of Quinta will be eligible
to receive the remaining $76 million and the $14 million that had been accrued
but unpaid in fiscal 1998. In the first quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company
expects to take a charge to operations for the remaining $76 million. See
Acquisitions note to the consolidated financial statements. The Company intends
to continue its expansion into software and other complementary data technology
markets and therefore currently intends to pursue discussions with companies
that fit with its strategy. As a result, the Company expects that it will
continue to incur charges for in-process research and development as it acquires
companies.

     In the quarters ended January 2, 1998 and April 3, 1998, the Company
recorded restructuring charges aggregating $347 million.  These charges reflect
steps the Company is taking to align worldwide operations with current market
conditions and to improve the productivity of its operations and the efficiency
of its development efforts.  The restructuring charges comprised $57 million for
reduction of personnel due to closure or consolidation of certain operations,
$78 million for closure of excess facilities, $148 million to write off or write
down equipment whose value had become permanently impaired, intangibles and
other assets, and $64 million for contract 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
cancellations and other expenses. These charges are comprised of cash and non-
cash items of $144 million and $203 million, respectively. The net book value of
equipment disposed of or to be disposed of as a result of implementation of the
restructuring plan is $181 million. Valuation of these assets was based on
estimated fair values.

     Amstrad PLC ("Amstrad") initiated a lawsuit against the Company in 1992
concerning the Company's sale of allegedly defective disc drives to Amstrad. On
November 6, 1997, the Company and Amstrad settled all of the outstanding
disputes.  The settlement resulted in a $22 million reduction in 1998 against
the $153 million charge recorded in 1997.  The $22 million reduction and the
$153 million charge are included in unusual items in the Consolidated Statements
of Operations for 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     Net other income in 1998 decreased by $51 million, compared with 1997,
primarily due to charges for mark-to-market adjustments in 1998 of $76 million
on certain of the Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts for the
Thai baht and the Malaysian ringgit.  Additionally there was an increase in
interest expense due to higher average levels of long-term debt outstanding,
partially offset by a decrease in the charge for minority interest as a result
of lower income in the Company's majority-owned subsidiary in Shenzhen, China.

     The Company recorded a $174 million benefit from income taxes at an
effective rate of 25% in 1998 compared with a $233 million provision for income
taxes at an effective rate of 26% in 1997.  The change in income taxes was
primarily due to the loss from operations incurred in 1998. Excluding the
acquisition of Quinta, certain non-recurring restructuring costs and the
reversal of certain Amstrad litigation charges, the effective tax rate was
approximately 28% in 1998. Excluding the Amstrad litigation charge, the
effective tax rate was approximately 28% in 1997. While the Company expects the
1999 effective tax rate before unusual items to approximate 28%, the actual
effective tax rate may vary from this rate if, for example, the Company incurs
charges in connection with future acquisitions.

     The Company provided income taxes at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% in
1998 on substantially all of its earnings from foreign subsidiaries compared
with approximately 66% of such earnings in 1997.   A substantial portion of the
Company's Far East manufacturing operations in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and
China operate free of tax under various tax holidays which expire in whole or in
part during fiscal years 1999 through 2005.  The tax holidays had no impact on
the net loss in 1998.  The net impact of these tax holidays was to increase net
income by approximately $71 million ($0.28 per share, diluted) in 1997.

     The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 27, 1997
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to taxable years 1991 through 1993
assessing potential deficiencies approximating $39 million plus interest and
approximately $6 million of penalties.  The Company petitioned the United States
Tax Court on September 24, 1997 for a re-determination of the deficiencies.  The
Company believes that the outcome of this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

     The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 12, 1998
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to Conner's taxable years 1991 and
1992 assessing potential deficiencies approximating $11 million plus interest.
The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the Internal Revenue Service
adjustments but has not yet determined the forum in which it will contest the
proposed deficiencies. The Company believes that the outcome of this matter will
not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or results of
operations.

1997 VS 1996   Revenue in 1997 was 4% higher than that reported in 1996. The
increase in revenue over the prior year was primarily due to a higher level of
unit shipments and a shift in mix to the Company's higher priced products
partially offset by a continuing decline in the average unit sales prices of the
Company's products as a result of competitive market conditions. Revenue
decreased to $1.977 billion in the fourth quarter of 1997 from $2.502 billion in
the third quarter of 1997 as a result of weakness in customer demand, primarily
for the Company's higher performance products. The decreased sales adversely
impacted the Company's gross margins and results of operations for the fourth
quarter of 1997. The rigid disc drive industry in which the Company operates is
characterized by declining unit sales prices over the life of a product.

     The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue over the prior year
was primarily due to improvements in gross margins for the Company's desktop
disc drive products, as well as a shift in mix to the Company's newer, higher
capacity and higher performance disc drives, particularly those with capacities
greater than 4 gigabytes, and a reduction in certain product costs, such as
material, scrap and warranty costs per unit.  These  factors were partially
offset by a continuing decline in the average unit sales prices of the Company's
products as a result of competitive market conditions.

     Product development expenses increased by $39 million (9%) compared with
1996, primarily due to increases in salaries and related costs, materials and
depreciation as well as increasing product development expenses related to the
Company's software products and services.

     Marketing and administrative expenses increased by $7 million (1%) compared
with 1996, primarily due to

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
increasing marketing and administrative expenses related to the Company's
software products and services. These increases in expenses were substantially
offset by cost savings in non-software activities resulting from the combination
of the operations of the Company and Conner pursuant to the February 1996 merger
of the two companies. These cost savings were primarily in the areas of salaries
and related costs, outside services, advertising and promotion, legal expenses
and allocated occupancy costs.

     Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles increased by $3 million (6%)
compared with 1996, primarily due to the write-offs and write-downs of certain
intangible assets related to past acquisitions of software companies whose value
had become permanently impaired and a full year of amortization in 1997, as
compared with a partial year in 1996, of certain intangible assets arising from
acquisitions of software companies in 1996. The increase in amortization from
1996 was partially offset by write-offs, in 1996, of certain intangible assets
related to past acquisitions of tape drive and software companies whose value
had become permanently impaired. See Acquisitions note to consolidated financial
statements.

     The $3 million charge for in-process research and development in 1997 was
incurred in connection with additional amounts paid with respect to the June
1996 acquisition of Holistic Systems Ltd.

     During fiscal year 1996, the Company recorded restructuring charges
totaling $242 million as a result of the merger with Conner. During 1997, the
Company reversed $10 million of its restructuring reserves as a result of the
completion of certain aspects of the restructuring plan at less than the
originally estimated cost. The reversal consisted of $5 million in severances
and benefits, $4 million in excess facilities and $1 million in other expenses.
Implementation of the restructure plan was substantially complete as of June 27,
1997. Partially offsetting the $10 million reversal was a $3 million charge for
restructuring costs recorded by Seagate Software.

     Unusual items in 1997 consisted of a $153 million charge as a result of the
judgment adverse to the Company in the Amstrad litigation and $13 million for
compensation expense in connection with additional amounts paid with respect to
the June 1996 acquisition of Holistic Systems Ltd. See "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Results of
Operations - 1998 vs 1997."

     Net other income decreased by $11 million compared with 1996, primarily due
to an increase in the charge for minority interest as a result of higher income
in the Company's majority-owned subsidiary in Shenzhen, China, an increase in
amortization of premiums on foreign currency option contracts and mark-to-market
losses on foreign currency forward exchange contracts partially offset by lower
interest expense as a result of the redemption or conversion of the Company's
5%, 6.5% and 6.75% convertible subordinated debentures.

     The provision for income taxes increased by $115 million in 1997, primarily
due to the increase in pretax earnings in 1997 partially offset by a decrease in
the effective tax rate from 36% in 1996 to 26% in 1997. The higher effective tax
rate in 1996 was primarily due to nondeductible charges associated with the
merger with Conner and other acquisitions. Excluding the Amstrad litigation
charge, the effective tax rate was approximately 28% in 1997. Excluding the
restructuring costs, nonrecurring merger-related costs and the write-off of in-
process research and development, the effective tax rate was approximately 30%
in 1996.

     The Company provided income taxes at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% in 1997
on approximately 66% of its earnings from foreign subsidiaries compared with
approximately 64% of such earnings in 1996. A substantial portion of the
Company's Far East manufacturing operations in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and
China operate free of tax under various tax holidays. The net impact of these
tax holidays was to increase net income by approximately $71 million ($0.28 per
share, diluted) in 1997 and approximately $50 million ($0.21 per share, diluted)
in 1996.

DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
INTEREST RATE RISK  The Company's exposure to market risk for changes in
interest rates relates primarily to the Company's investment portfolio and long-
term debt obligations.  The Company does not use derivative financial
instruments in its investment portfolio.  The Company places its investments
with high credit quality issuers and, by policy, limits the amount of credit
exposure to any one issuer.  As stated in its policy, the Company is averse to
principal loss and ensures the safety and preservation of its invested funds by
limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk.

     The Company mitigates default risk by investing in only the safest and
highest credit quality securities and by constantly positioning its portfolio to
respond appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any
investment issuer, guarantor or depository. The portfolio includes only
marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to ensure
portfolio liquidity.

     The Company has no cash flow exposure due to rate changes for long-term
debt obligations. The Company primarily enters into debt obligations to support
general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital
needs.

                                   7
<PAGE>
 
     The table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related
weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for the Company's investment
portfolio and debt obligations. All investments mature, by policy, in three
years or less, except for certain types of investments that may mature in more
than three years but whose weighted average maturity is three years or less.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                        Fair Value
                                                                                        ----------
In millions                 1999     2000    2001     2002  2003  Thereafter  Total   July 3, 1998
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                          <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>   <C>   <C>         <C>     <C> 
Assets
Cash equivalents
 
 Fixed rate                  $ 574  $   -   $   -   $   -  $   -     $   -    $ 574        $   572
    Average interest rate    5.37%      -       -       -      -         -    5.37%
 Short-term investments
  Fixed rate                   285     304     369      -      -         -      958            961
    Average interest rate    5.81%   6.25%   6.05%      -      -         -    6.04%
    Variable rate              200       -       -      -      -         -      200            200
  Average interest rate      5.62%       -       -      -      -         -    5.62%

Total investment
 securities                  1,059     304     369      -      -         -   1,732*          1,732
    Average interest rate    5.54%   6.25%   6.05%      -      -         -    5.77%

Long-Term Debt
 Fixed rate                      -       -       -      -      -       700      700            693
    Average interest rate        -       -       -      -      -     7.33%    7.33%
</TABLE> 

*Includes $2 million of unaccreted interest to be received at maturity.


FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK   The Company transacts business in various foreign
countries.  Its primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market
countries in Asia and in certain European countries.  During 1998 and 1997, the
Company employed a foreign currency hedging program utilizing foreign currency
forward exchange contracts and purchased currency options to hedge local
currency cash flows for payroll, inventory, other operating expenditures and
fixed asset purchases in Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia.  Under this program,
increases or decreases in the Company's local currency operating expenses and
other cash outflows, as translated into U.S. dollars, are partially offset by
realized gains and losses on the hedging instruments.  The goal of this hedging
program is to economically guarantee or lock in the exchange rates on the
Company's foreign currency cash outflows rather than to eliminate the
possibility of short-term earnings volatility. Based on uncertainty in the
Southeast Asian foreign currency markets, the Company has temporarily suspended
purchasing foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts for the Thai
baht, Malaysian ringgit and Singapore dollar.  The Company does not use foreign
currency forward exchange contracts or purchased currency options for trading
purposes.  

     Under the Company's foreign currency hedging program, gains and losses
related to qualified hedges of firm commitments and anticipated transactions are
deferred and are recognized in income or as adjustments of carrying amounts when
the hedged transaction occurs. All other foreign currency hedge contracts are
marked-to-market and unrealized gains and losses are included in current period
net income. Because not all economic hedges qualify as accounting hedges,
unrealized gains and losses may be recognized in income in advance of the actual
foreign currency cash flows. This mismatch of accounting gains and losses and
foreign currency cash flows was especially pronounced during the first and
second quarters of fiscal 1998 as a result of the declines in value of the Thai
baht and Malaysian ringgit, relative to the U.S. dollar. This mismatch resulted
in a pre-tax charge of $76 million for the year ended July 3, 1998.

     The table below provides information as of June 27, 1997 about the
Company's derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency
forward exchange contracts and purchased currency options.  The information is
provided in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts, as presented in the Company's
financial statements.  For foreign currency forward exchange contracts, the
table presents the notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the
weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates. As of July 3,
1998, the Company had effectively closed out all of its foreign currency forward
exchange contracts by purchasing offsetting contracts and the remaining foreign
currency market risk from derivative financial instruments is not material.

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                         June 27, 1997
                                             ------------------------------------
                                             Notional     Average      Estimated
 In millions, except average contract rate     Amount  Contract Rate  Fair Value*
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                                          <C>       <C>            <C> 
Foreign currency forward exchange contracts:
          Malaysian ringgit                    $  264         2.53         $ (1)
          Singapore dollar                        284         1.39           (5)
          Thai baht                               458        26.57           (5)
                                               ------                      ----
                                               $1,006                      $(11)
 
Purchased currency options:
          Malaysian ringgit                    $   82         2.53         $  1
          Singapore dollar                        244         1.39            1
                                               ------                      ----
                                               $  326                      $  2
</TABLE>

*Equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts.


OTHER

     For 1998, the net gain resulting from the remeasurement of foreign
financial statements into U.S. dollars was $17 million.  Such net gains (losses)
did not have a significant effect on the results of operations for 1997 or 1996.

     The effect of inflation on operating results for 1998, 1997 and 1996 has
been insignificant. The Company believes this is due to the absence of any
significant inflation factors in the industry in which the Company participates.

     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" ("SFAS 130").  SFAS 130 requires that all items that are required to be
recognized under accounting standards as components of comprehensive income be
reported in a financial statement that is displayed with the same prominence as
other financial statements.  This statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997, and will be adopted by the Company for its
fiscal year 1999.  Adoption of this pronouncement is not expected to have a
material impact on the Company's financial statements.

     Also in June 1997, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information ("SFAS 131").  SFAS 131 replaces Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 14 and changes the way public companies report segment
information.  This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997 and will be adopted by the Company for its fiscal year 1999.
Adoption of this pronouncement is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's financial statements.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities."  This
statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments and for hedging activities.  It requires that derivatives be
recognized in the balance sheet at fair value and specifies the accounting for
changes in fair value.  This statement is effective for all fiscal quarters of
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999, and will be adopted by the Company
for its fiscal year 2000.  The Company is in the process of assessing the impact
of this pronouncement on its financial statements.

     In the second quarter of 1998, the Company implemented Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share" ("SFAS 128").  All
earnings per share amounts for all periods have been presented and, where
necessary, restated to conform to the requirements of SFAS 128.  The adoption of
SFAS 128 did not have a material impact on the Company's earnings per share.

     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board released
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("SFAS 123").  SFAS 123 provides an alternative to Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
("APBO 25") and requires additional disclosures.  Effective with the Company's
fiscal year ended June 27, 1997, the Company has continued to account for its
employee stock plans in accordance with the provisions of APBO 25 while
providing the additional disclosures required by SFAS 123.  Accordingly, SFAS
123 has no impact on the Company's financial position or results of operations.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     At July 3, 1998, the Company's cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments totaled $1.827 billion, a decrease of $456 million from the prior
year-end balances. This decrease was primarily a result of expenditures of $709
million for property, equipment and leasehold improvements, the payment of $194
million in connection with 

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
the acquisition of Quinta, net of cash acquired, the net payment of $123 million
in connection with the adverse judgement in the Amstrad PLC litigation and the
repurchase of approximately 4 million shares of the Company's common stock for
$105 million, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities.
Until required for other purposes, the Company's cash and cash equivalents are
maintained in highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or
less at the time of purchase, while its short-term investments primarily consist
of readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90
days at the time of purchase.

     As of July 3, 1998, the Company had committed lines of credit of $61
million which can be used for standby letters of credit or bankers' guarantees.
At July 3, 1998, these lines of credit were fully utilized.

     The Company made investments in property and equipment in 1998 totaling
$698 million. This amount comprised $248 million for manufacturing facilities
and equipment related to the Company's subassembly and disc drive final assembly
and test facilities in the United States, Far East and Northern Ireland; $231
million for manufacturing facilities and equipment for the recording head
operations in the United States, Malaysia, Northern Ireland, the Philippines and
Thailand; $190 million for expansion of the Company's thin-film media operations
in California, Singapore, Northern Ireland and Mexico; and $29 million for other
purposes.  The Company presently anticipates investments of approximately $700
million in property and equipment in 1999. The Company plans to finance these
investments from existing cash balances and future cash flows from operations.

     During the year ended July 3, 1998 the Company acquired approximately 4
million shares of its common stock for approximately $105 million. The
repurchase of these shares was primarily in connection with a stock repurchase
program announced in June 1997 in which up to $600 million of the Company's
common stock was authorized to be acquired in the open market.

     During the year ended June 27, 1997, the Company issued senior debt
securities totaling $700 million principal amount with interest rates ranging
from 7.125% to 7.875% and maturities ranging from seven years to forty years.

     In April and June 1997, Seagate invested an aggregate of $20 million to
acquire approximately ten percent (10%) of Quinta's stock.  In August 1997, the
Company completed the acquisition of Quinta. Pursuant to the purchase agreement
with Quinta, the shareholders of Quinta, other than Seagate, received cash
payments aggregating $230 million upon the closing of the acquisition and were
eligible to receive additional cash payments aggregating $95 million upon the
achievement of certain product development and early production milestones. Of
the $95 million, $19 million was paid or accrued in fiscal 1998. In July 1998,
the Company and Quinta amended the purchase agreement to eliminate the product
development and early production milestones and provide that the former
shareholders of Quinta will be eligible to receive the remaining $76 million
and the $14 million that had been accrued but unpaid in fiscal 1998. The Company
intends to continue its expansion into software and other complementary data
technology markets and therefore currently intends to pursue discussions with
companies that fit with its strategy. The Company plans to finance this
expansion primarily through cash flows from operations and existing cash
balances.

     The Company believes that its cash balances together with cash flows from
operations and its borrowing capacity will be sufficient to meet its working
capital needs for the foreseeable future.

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

     The data storage industry in which the Company competes is subject to a
number of risks, each of which has affected the Company's operating results in
the past and could impact the Company's future operating results.  The demand
for disc drive and tape drive products depends principally on demand for
computer systems and storage upgrades to computer systems, which has
historically been volatile.  Changes in demand for computer systems often have
an exaggerated effect on the demand for disc drive and tape drive products in
any given period, and unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems
generally cause sharp declines in demand for such products. In addition, the
Company's future success will require, in part, that the market for computer
systems, storage upgrades to computer systems and multimedia applications, such
as digital video and video-on-demand, and hence the market for disc drives,
remains strong. Delays in the development, introduction and ramping of
production of new products has in the past and may in the future significantly
adversely impact operating results.  The data storage industry has been
characterized by periodic situations in which the supply of drives exceeds
demand, resulting in higher than anticipated inventory levels and intense price
competition.  Even during periods of consistent demand, this industry is
characterized by intense competition and ongoing price erosion over the life of
a given drive product.  The Company expects that competitors will offer new and
existing products at prices necessary to gain or retain market share and
customers.  The Company expects that price erosion in the data storage industry
will continue for the foreseeable future.  This competition and continuing price
erosion could adversely affect the Company's results of operations in any given
quarter and such adverse effect often cannot be anticipated until late in any
given quarter.  In addition, the demand of drive customers for new generations
of products has led to short product life cycles that require the Company to
constantly develop and introduce new drive products on a cost-effective and
timely basis. Many of these new drive products require increased storage
capacity and more advanced technology. The increased difficulty and complexity
associated with production of higher capacity disc drives increases the
likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems that could result in
reduced bookings, increased manufacturing rework and scrap costs, increased
service and warranty costs and a decline in the Company's competitive position.
There is also significant demand in the personal computer market for computer
systems costing less than $1000.  The Company is positioning itself to
participate in this market, however, there can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to produce disc drives for this market at a cost low enough to
yield gross margins comparable to those of its current overall product mix.  In
addition, the Company's operating results have been and may in the future be
subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as a result of a number of other
factors, including the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major
customers, product mix, pricing, delays or interruptions in the production of
products, competing technologies, variations in product cost, component
availability due to single or limited sources of supply, high fixed costs
resulting from the Company's vertical integration strategy, the Company's
ability to attract and retain key technical employees, foreign currency exchange
fluctuations (see "Disclosures about Market Risk - Foreign Currency Risk"),
increased competition and general economic and industry fluctuations. For
example, revenue decreased to $6.819 billion in fiscal 1998 from $8.940 billion
in fiscal 1997 as a result of increased competition resulting in significant
price decreases and continuing weakness in demand for the Company's disc drive
products. The Company's future operating results may also be adversely affected
by an adverse judgment or settlement in the legal proceedings in which the
Company is currently involved.  See Litigation note to the consolidated
financial statements.

     The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience intense
competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies.  These companies
include the other leading independent disc drive manufacturers as well as large
integrated multinational manufacturers such as Fujitsu Limited, Hyundai
Electronics America (Maxtor Corporation), International Business Machines
Corporation, NEC Corporation, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd. and Toshiba
Corporation.  Such competition could materially adversely affect the Company's
business, operating results and financial condition.  There can be no assurance
that the Company will be able to compete successfully against current or future
competitors or that competitive pressures faced by the Company will not
materially adversely affect its business, operating results and financial
condition.

     The cost, quality and availability of certain components, including heads,
media, application specific integrated circuits, motors, printed circuit boards
and custom semiconductors are critical to the successful production of disc
drives.  The Company's strategy of vertical integration has allowed it to
internally manufacture many of the critical components used in its products.
The Company also relies on independent suppliers for certain components used in
its products.   The Company has in the past experienced production delays when
unable to obtain sufficient quantities of certain components.  Any prolonged
interruption or reduction in the supply of any key components could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results and
financial condition. The Company has pursued a strategy of vertical integration
of its manufacturing process in order to reduce costs, control quality and
assure availability and quality of certain components.  A strategy of vertical

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
integration entails a high level of fixed costs and requires a high volume of
production and sales to be successful.  During periods of decreased production,
such as the Company is now experiencing, these high fixed costs have had, and
could in the future have, a material adverse effect on the Company's operating
results and financial condition.  In addition, a strategy of vertical
integration has in the past and could continue to delay the Company's ability to
introduce products containing market-leading technology.

     The Company has significant offshore operations.  Offshore operations are
subject to certain inherent risks, including delays in transportation, changes
in governmental policies, tariffs and import/export regulations, political
unrest, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and geographic limitations on
management controls and reporting.  There can be no assurance that the inherent
risks of offshore operations will not adversely affect the Company's business,
operating results and financial condition in the future.  In addition, because
the Company's products are priced in U.S. dollars, the currency instability in
the Asian financial markets may have the effect of making the Company's products
more expensive to computer manufacturers and other users than those of other
disc drive manufacturers whose products may be priced in one of the affected
Asian currencies, and, therefore, those customers may reduce future purchases of
the Company's disc drive products.  The Company anticipates that the recent
turmoil in Asian financial markets and the recent deterioration of the
underlying economic conditions in certain Asian countries may have an impact on
its sales to customers located in or whose end-user customers are located in
those countries due to the impact of currency fluctuations on the relative price
of the Company's products and restrictions on government spending imposed by the
International Monetary Fund (the "IMF") on those countries receiving the IMF's
assistance.  In addition, customers in those countries may face reduced access
to working capital to fund purchases of disc drive components or software, such
as the Company's products, due to higher interest rates, reduced bank lending
due to contractions in the money supply or the deterioration in the customer's
or its bank's financial condition or the inability to access other financing.

     The Company has incorporated its software acquisitions into a single entity
called Seagate Software and is offering employees of Seagate Software and
selected employees of the Company an opportunity to acquire an equity interest
in Seagate Software.  The Company intends to continue its expansion into
software and other complementary data technology businesses through internal
growth as well as acquisitions.

     Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the
assimilation of the operations and products of the acquired businesses and the
potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses.  The
Company expects that it will continue to incur charges as it acquires
businesses, including charges for the write-off of in-process research and
development.  The timing of such write-offs has in the past and may in the
future lead to fluctuations in the Company's operating results on a quarterly
and annual basis.  For example, the Company incurred a charge to operations in
the first quarter of fiscal 1998 of approximately $216 million for the write-off
of in-process research and development, $214 million of which was in connection
with the acquisition of Quinta.

     The Company's operations are dependent on its ability to protect its
computer equipment and the information stored in its databases against damage by
fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized
intrusion and other catastrophic events.  The Company believes it has taken
prudent measures to reduce the risk of interruption in its operations.  However,
there can be no assurance that these measures are sufficient.  Any damage or
failure that causes interruptions in the Company's operations could have a
material adverse effect on its business, results of operations and financial
condition.

     The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written using
two digits rather than four to define the applicable year.  Computer programs
that have date-sensitive software may recognize a date using "00" as the year
1900 rather than the year 2000.  The Company considers a product to be in "Year
2000 compliance" if the product's performance and functionality are unaffected
by processing of dates prior to, during and after the year 2000, but only if all
products (for example hardware, software and firmware) used with the product
properly exchange accurate date data with it.  The Company has a program to
assess the capability of its products to determine whether or not they are in
Year 2000 compliance.  Although the Company believes its disc and tape drive
products and certain of its software products are in Year 2000 compliance, the
Company has determined that certain of its software products are not and will
not be Year 2000 compliant, and is taking measures to inform its customers of
that fact.  To assist customers in evaluating their Year 2000 issues, Seagate
Software has developed a list which indicates those products that are Year 2000
compliant as stand-alone products.  The list is located on Seagate Software's
World Wide Web page and is periodically updated when assessment of the Year 2000
compliance of additional products is completed.  The incremental costs incurred
to date related to these programs are immaterial.

     However, the assessment of whether a complete system will operate correctly
depends on the BIOS capability and software design and integration, and for many
end-users this will include BIOS and software and components provided by
companies other than Seagate or Seagate Software.  The Company does not believe
it is legally responsible for costs incurred by customers related to ensuring
such customers' or end-users' Year 2000 

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
capability. Nevertheless, the Company is incurring various costs to provide
customer support and customer satisfaction services regarding Year 2000 issues
and anticipates that these expenditures will continue in fiscal 1999 and
thereafter. In addition, the Company has contacted its major customers to
determine whether their products into which the Company's products have been and
will be integrated are Year 2000 compliant. The Company has received assurances
of Year 2000 compliance from a number of those customers and the customers under
existing contracts with the Company are under no contractual obligation to
provide such information to the Company. The Company is taking steps with
respect to new customer agreements to ensure that the customers' products and
internal systems are Year 2000 compliant. As used herein, Year 2000 capable
means, with respect to its disc drive and tape products, that when used properly
and in conformity with the product information provided by the Company, the
Company's product will accurately store, display, process, provide and/or
receive data from, into and between the twentieth and twenty-first centuries,
including leap year calculations, provided that all other technology used in
combination with the Seagate disc drive or tape product properly exchanges date
data with the Seagate product.

     The Company anticipates that substantial litigation may be brought against
vendors, including the Company, of all component products of systems that are
unable to properly manage data related to the Year 2000.  The Company's
agreements with customers typically contain provisions designed to limit the
Company's liability for such claims.  It is possible, however, that these
measures will not provide protection from liability claims, as a result of
existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable
judicial decisions.  Any such claims, with or without merit, could result in a
material adverse affect on the Company's business, financial condition and
results of operations, including increased warranty costs, customer satisfaction
issues and potential lawsuits.

     The Company has initiated a comprehensive program to address Year 2000
readiness in its internal systems and with its customers and suppliers.  The
Company's program has been designed to address its most critical internal
systems first and to gather information regarding the Year 2000 compliance of
products supplied to it and into which the Company's products are integrated.
Assessment and remediation are proceeding in tandem, and the Company intends to
have its critical internal systems in Year 2000 compliance by July 3, 1999, the
first day of the Company's fiscal year 2000.  These activities are intended to
encompass all major categories of systems in use by the Company, including
manufacturing, engineering, sales, finance and human resources.  The costs
incurred to date related to these programs have not been material.  The Company
currently expects that the total cost of its Year 2000 readiness programs,
excluding redeployed resources, will not exceed $10 million over the next fiscal
year.  The total cost estimate does not include potential costs related to any
customer or other claims or the costs of internal software or hardware replaced
in the normal course of business.  The total cost estimate is based on the
current assessment of the Company's Year 2000 readiness needs and is subject to
change as the projects proceed.

     The Company is currently in the process of transitioning to new computer
software for its financial, accounting, inventory control, order processing and
other management information systems, and the Company is identifying Year 2000
dependencies in such systems and is implementing changes to such systems to make
them Year 2000 compliant. The successful implementation of these new systems is
crucial to the efficient operation of the Company's business.  There can be no
assurance that the Company will implement its new systems in an efficient and
timely manner or that the new systems will be adequate to support the Company's
operations. Problems with installation or initial operation of the new systems
could cause substantial management difficulties in operations planning,
financial reporting and management and thus could have a material adverse effect
on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. The
cost of bringing the Company's systems into Year 2000 compliance is not expected
to have a material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.

     The Company has also initiated formal communications with its significant
suppliers and financial institutions to determine the extent to which the
Company is vulnerable to those third parties' failure to remedy their own Year
2000 issue.  To date the Company has contacted its significant suppliers and
financial institutions and has received assurances of Year 2000 compliance from
a number of those contacted.  Most of the suppliers under existing contracts
with the Company are under no contractual obligation to provide such information
to the Company.  The Company is taking steps with respect to new supplier
agreements to ensure that the suppliers' products and internal systems are Year
2000 compliant.  While the Company currently expects that the Year 2000 issue
will not pose significant operational problems, delays in the implementation of
new information systems, or a failure to fully identify all Year 2000
dependencies in the Company's systems and in the systems of its suppliers,
customers and financial institutions could have material adverse consequences,
including delays in the delivery or sale of products.  Therefore, the Company is
developing contingency plans for continuing operations in the event 

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
such problems arise.

     The Company's stock price, like that of other technology companies, is
subject to significant volatility.  The announcement of new products, services
or technological innovations or major restructurings by the Company or its
competitors, quarterly variations in the Company's results of operations,
changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and
speculation in the press or investment community are among the factors affecting
the Company's stock price.  In addition, the stock price may be affected by
general market conditions and domestic and international macroeconomic factors
unrelated to the Company's performance.  Because of the foregoing reasons,
recent trends should not be considered reliable indicators of future stock
prices or financial results.

     The Company is in the process of addressing the issues raised by the
introduction of the Single European Currency ("Euro") as of January 1, 1999 and
during the transition period through January 1, 2002. The Company expects that
its internal systems that will be affected by the initial introduction of the
Euro will be Euro capable by January 1, 1999, and does not expect the costs of
system modifications to be material. The Company does not presently expect that
introduction and use of the Euro will materially affect the Company's foreign
exchange and hedging activities, or the Company's use of derivative instruments,
or will result in any material increase in costs to the Company. While the
Company will continue to evaluate the impact of the Euro introduction over time,
based on currently available information, management does not believe that the
introduction of the Euro currency will have a material adverse impact on the
Company's financial condition or overall trends in results of operations.

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                                                                                  July 3,   June 27,
In millions, except share data                                                                     1998       1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                               <C>       <C>
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents                                                                          $  666     $1,047
Short-term investments                                                                              1,161      1,236
Accounts receivable, net                                                                              799      1,041
Inventories                                                                                           508        808
Deferred income taxes                                                                                 243        254
Other current assets                                                                                  238        166
                                                                                                   ------     ------
     Total Current Assets                                                                           3,615      4,552
                                                                                                   ------     ------
Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net                                                 1,669      1,787
Goodwill and other intangibles, net                                                                   169        199
Other assets                                                                                          192        185
                                                                                                   ------     ------
     Total Assets                                                                                  $5,645     $6,723
                                                                                                   ======     ======

Liabilities
Accounts payable                                                                                   $  577     $  863
Accrued employee compensation                                                                         175        200
Accrued expenses                                                                                      405        505
Accrued warranty                                                                                      197        198
Accrued income taxes                                                                                   20         69
Current portion of long-term debt                                                                       1          1
                                                                                                   ------     ------
     Total Current Liabilities                                                                      1,375      1,836
                                                                                                   ------     ------
Deferred income taxes                                                                                 435        479
Accrued warranty                                                                                      161        191
Other liabilities                                                                                      33         39
Long-term debt, less current portion                                                                  704        702
                                                                                                   ------     ------
     Total Liabilities                                                                              2,708      3,247
                                                                                                   ------     ------
Commitments and Contingencies
  
Stockholders' Equity
Preferred stock, $.01 par value--1,000,000 shares
    authorized; none issued or outstanding                                                              -          -
Common stock, $.01 par value--600,000,000 shares authorized;
    shares issued--251,890,019 in 1998 and  1997                                                        3          3
Additional paid-in capital                                                                          1,929      1,903
Retained earnings                                                                                   1,299      1,947
Deferred compensation                                                                                 (55)       (57)
Treasury common stock at cost; 7,132,867 shares in 1998
     and 7,341,645 shares in 1997                                                                    (238)      (319)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                (1)        (1)
                                                                                                   ------     ------
     Total Stockholders' Equity                                                                     2,937      3,476
                                                                                                   ------     ------
     Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity                                                    $5,645     $6,723
                                                                                                   ======     ======
</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       15
<PAGE>
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
For the years ended                                                          July 3,   June 27,   June 28,
In millions, except per share data                                            1998       1997       1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>        <C>        <C> 
Revenue                                                                     $6,819     $8,940     $8,588
Cost of sales                                                                5,830      6,918      7,007
Product development                                                            585        459        420
Marketing and administrative                                                   502        493        486
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles                                  40         50         47
In-process research and development                                            223          3         99
Restructuring                                                                  347         (7)       242
Unusual items                                                                  (22)       166          -
                                                                            ------     ------     ------
     Total Operating Expenses                                                7,505      8,082      8,301
                                                                            ------     ------     ------
     Income (Loss) from Operations                                            (686)       858        287
Interest income                                                                 98         92         94
Interest expense                                                               (51)       (35)       (56)
Other, net                                                                     (65)       (24)         6
                                                                            ------     ------     ------
     Other Income (Expense), net                                               (18)        33         44
Income (loss) before income taxes                                             (704)       891        331
Benefit (provision) for income taxes                                           174       (233)      (118)
                                                                            ------     ------     ------
     Net Income (Loss)                                                      $ (530)    $  658     $  213
                                                                            ======     ======     ======
Net income (loss) per share:
  Basic                                                                     $(2.17)    $ 2.82     $ 1.07
  Diluted                                                                    (2.17)      2.62        .97
                                                        
Number of shares used in per share computations:        
  Basic                                                                      243.6      233.6      199.7
  Diluted                                                                    243.6      257.9      236.1
</TABLE> 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
For the years ended                                                   July 3,   June 27,   June 28,
In millions                                                            1998       1997       1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>       
Operating Activities                                  
Net income (loss)                                                    $  (530)   $   658    $   213 
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss)                                                         
  to net cash provided by operating activities:                                                    
  Depreciation and amortization                                          664        607        417 
  Deferred income tax                                                    (33)        96        (85)
  In-process research and development                                    223          3         99 
  Non-cash portion of restructuring charge                               203          -          - 
  Amstrad litigation charge                                                -        153          - 
  Other, net                                                              41         79         92 
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                                     
     Accounts receivable                                                 242         30        (58)
     Inventories                                                         213        (84)      (259)
     Accounts payable                                                   (278)       169        (16) 
     Accrued expenses, employee compensation                                                       
        and warranty                                                    (262)       (63)        85 
     Accrued income taxes                                                (37)        72        (16)
     Other assets and liabilities                                         54        160        158 
                                                                     -------    -------    ------- 
  Net cash provided by operating activities                              500      1,880        630 
                                                                                                   
Investing Activities                                                                               
Acquisition of property, equipment and                                                             
  leasehold improvements, net                                           (709)      (941)      (965)
Purchases of short-term investments                                   (4,810)    (4,473)    (3,025)
Maturities and sales of short-term investments                         4,889      3,907      3,131 
Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired                        (204)         -       (111)
Equity investments                                                       (27)       (44)       (11)
Other, net                                                                13         19         38 
                                                                     -------    -------    ------- 
  Net cash used in investing activities                                 (848)    (1,532)      (943)
                                                                                                   
Financing Activities                                                                               
Issuance of long-term debt                                                 -        699          - 
Repayment of long-term debt                                               (1)        (8)       (16)
Sale of common stock                                                      67         84         97 
Purchase of treasury stock                                              (105)      (582)      (124)
                                                                     -------    -------    ------- 
  Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                    (39)       193        (43)
Effect of exchange rate changes on                                                                 
    cash and cash equivalents                                              6          2          1 
                                                                     -------    -------    ------- 
  Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                      (381)       543       (355)
  Elimination of Conner's net cash activity for the                                                
    duplicated six months ended December 31, 1995                                     -        (32)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year                 1,047        504        891 
                                                                     -------    -------    ------- 
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year                     $   666    $ 1,047    $   504
                                                                     =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
For the years ended                                                                                               Foreign 
July 3, 1998, June 27,                           Common Stock   Additional                            Treasury    Currency          
1997, and June 28, 1996                          ------------    Paid-In    Retained     Deferred      Common    Translation 
In millions                                     Shares   Amount   Capital   Earnings    Compensation    Stock    Adjustment    Total

- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>      <C>    <C>        <C>         <C>            <C>        <C>        <C> 
Balance at June 30, 1995                           194      $2        $686    $1,274           $(3)      $(22)      $(1)     $1,936

Purchase of treasury
stock at cost                                                                                            (124)                 (124)


Sale of stock                                        7                  77       (20)                      40                    97

Acquisition of Arcada minority interest              2                  85                                                       85

Issuance of restricted stock, net of 
cancellations                                        2                  59                     (59)                               -
 
Amortization of deferred compensation                                                            4                                4
 
Income tax benefit from stock options exercised                          47                                                      47
 
Conversion of debentures to common stock             9                  200      (39)                     106                   267
 
Unrealized loss on marketable securities                                          (1)                                            (1)
 
Net income                                                                       213                                            213
 
Elimination of Conner activity for the 
duplicated six months ended December 31, 1995       (1)                 (21)     (37)                                           (58)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Balance at June 28, 1996                           213       2        1,133    1,390           (58)         -        (1)      2,466

Purchase of treasury stock at cost                                                                       (582)                 (582)

Sale of stock                                        4                   42      (71)                     113                    84
 
Issuance of restricted stock, net of 
 cancellations                                                            7       (7)           (7)         7                     -
 
Amortization of deferred compensation                                                            8                                8

Income tax benefit from stock options exercised                          52                                                      52

Conversion of debentures to common stock            35        1         669       (24)                    143                   789
 
Unrealized gain on marketable securities                                            1                                             1

Net income                                                                        658                                           658
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance at June 27, 1997                            252       3       1,903     1,947          (57)      (319)       (1)      3,476

Purchase of treasury stock at cost                                                                       (105)                 (105)

Sale of stock                                                                     (99)                    166                    67
 
Issuance of restricted stock, net of cancellations                        6       (20)          (6)        20                     -
 
Amortization of deferred compensation                                                            8                                8
 
Income tax benefit from stock options exercised                          12                                                      12
 
Unrealized gain on marketable securities                                            1                                             1
 
Other stock-based compensation                                            8                                                       8

Net loss                                                                          (530)                                        (530)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Balance at July 3, 1998                              252     $ 3    $ 1,929    $ 1,299       $ (55)    $ (238)     $ (1)    $ 2,937
====================================================================================================================================

</TABLE> 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     NATURE OF OPERATIONS    Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company") operates
in a single industry segment by designing, manufacturing and marketing products
for storage, retrieval and management of data on computer and data
communications systems.  These products include disc drives and disc drive
components, tape drives and software.  The Company sells its products to
original equipment manufacturers for inclusion in their computer systems or
subsystems, and to distributors, resellers, dealers and retailers.

     ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES   The preparation of financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ materially from
those estimates.

     The actual results with regard to warranty expenditures could have a
material unfavorable impact on the Company if the actual rate of unit failure or
the cost to repair a unit is greater than what the Company has used in
estimating the warranty expense accrual.

     The actual results with regard to restructuring charges could have a
material unfavorable impact on the Company if the actual expenditures to
implement the restructuring plan are greater than what the Company estimated
when establishing the restructuring accrual.

     Given the volatility of the markets in which the Company participates, the
Company makes adjustments to the value of inventory based on estimates of
potentially excess and obsolete inventory after considering forecasted demand
and forecasted average selling prices.  However, forecasts are subject to
revisions, cancellations, and rescheduling.  Actual demand will inevitably
differ from such anticipated demand, and such differences may have a material
effect on the financial statements.

     BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION   The consolidated financial statements include
the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries
after eliminations.  Total outstanding minority interests are not material for
any period presented.

     The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52
or 53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Accordingly, fiscal 1998
ended on July 3, 1998, fiscal 1997 ended on June 27, 1997 and fiscal 1996 ended
on June 28, 1996. Fiscal year 1998 comprised 53 weeks and fiscal years 1997 and
1996 each comprised 52 weeks. All references to years in these notes to
consolidated financial statements represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted.

     Certain amounts in prior year financial statements and notes thereto have
been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION   The U.S. dollar is the functional
currency for most of the Company's foreign operations. Gains and losses on the
translation into U.S. dollars of amounts denominated in foreign currencies are
included in net income for those operations whose functional currency is the
U.S. dollar and as a separate component of stockholders' equity for those
operations whose functional currency is the local currency.

     DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   The Company may enter into foreign
currency forward exchange and option contracts to manage exposure related to
certain foreign currency commitments, certain foreign currency denominated
balance sheet positions and anticipated foreign currency denominated
expenditures.  The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes.  Foreign currency forward exchange contracts designated
and effective as hedges of firm commitments and option contracts designated and
effective as hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions are treated
as hedges for accounting purposes. Gains and losses related to qualified
accounting hedges of firm commitments or anticipated transactions are deferred
and are recognized in income or as adjustments to the carrying amounts when the
hedged transaction occurs. All other foreign currency forward exchange contracts
are marked-to-market and unrealized gains and losses are included in current
period net income as a component of other income (expense).

     Premiums on foreign currency option contracts used to hedge firm
commitments and anticipated transactions are amortized on a straight-line basis
over the life of the contract.  Forward points on foreign currency forward
exchange contracts which qualify as hedges of firm commitments are recognized in
income as adjustments to the carrying amount when the hedged transaction occurs.

     The Company may, from time to time, adjust its foreign currency hedging
position by taking out additional contracts or by terminating or offsetting
existing foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts.  These
adjustments may result from changes in the Company's underlying foreign currency
exposures or from fundamental shifts in the economics of particular exchange
rates, as occurred in the first and second quarters of fiscal 1998 with respect
to the Thai baht, Malaysian ringgit and Singapore dollar. For foreign currency
forward exchange and option 

                                       19
<PAGE>
 
contracts qualifying as accounting hedges, gains or losses on terminated
contracts and offsetting contracts are deferred and are recognized in income as
adjustments to the carrying amount of the hedged item in the period the hedged
transaction occurs. For foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts
not qualifying as accounting hedges, gains and losses on terminated contracts,
or on contracts that are offset, are recognized in income in the period of
contract termination or offset.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION AND PRODUCT WARRANTY   Revenue from sales of
products is generally recognized upon shipment to customers. The Company
warrants its products against defects in design, materials and workmanship
generally for three to five years depending upon the capacity category of the
disc drive, with the higher capacity products being warranted for the longer
periods. A provision for estimated future costs relating to warranty expense is
recorded when products are shipped.

     INVENTORY   Inventories are valued at the lower of standard cost
(which approximates actual cost using the first-in, first-out method) or market.

     PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS   Land, equipment,
buildings and leasehold improvements are stated at cost. Equipment and buildings
are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives
of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line
method over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the remaining term
of the lease.

     ADVERTISING EXPENSE   The cost of advertising is expensed as incurred.
Advertising costs were $68 million, $41 million and $34 million in 1998, 1997
and 1996, respectively.

     STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION   The Company accounts for employee stock-based
compensation under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" ("APBO 25") and related interpretations. Pro forma
net income and net income per share are disclosures required by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("SFAS 123") and are included in the Stock-Based Benefit Plans -
Pro Forma Information note to the consolidated financial statements.

     IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS   In June 1997, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS 130").
SFAS 130 requires that all items that are required to be recognized under
accounting standards as components of comprehensive income be reported in a
financial statement that is displayed with the same prominence as other
financial statements. SFAS 130 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997 and will be adopted by the Company for its fiscal 1999.
Adoption of this pronouncement is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's financial statements.

     Also in June 1997, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" ("SFAS 131").  SFAS 131 replaces Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 14 and changes the way public companies report segment
information.  SFAS 131 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 1997 and will be adopted by the Company for its fiscal 1999 which commenced
July 4, 1998. Adoption of this pronouncement is not expected to have a material
impact on the Company's financial statements.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS
133"). This statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments and for hedging activities.  It requires that derivatives
be recognized in the balance sheet at fair value and specifies the accounting
for changes in fair value.  SFAS 133 is effective for all fiscal quarters of
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999 and will be adopted by the Company
for its fiscal year 2000.  The Company is in the process of assessing the impact
of this pronouncement on its financial statements.

     NET INCOME PER SHARE   In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per
Share" ("SFAS 128").  SFAS 128 replaced the previously reported primary and
fully diluted earnings per share with basic and diluted earnings per share.
Unlike primary earnings per share, basic earnings per share excludes any
dilutive effects of options and convertible securities.  Diluted earnings per
share is very similar to the previously reported fully diluted earnings per
share.  All earnings per share amounts for all periods have been presented, and
where necessary, restated to conform to the SFAS 128 requirements.  The adoption
of SFAS 128 did not have a material impact on the Company's earnings per share.

     For the periods in which the Company had net income, basic net income per
share was based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock
outstanding during the period.  For the same periods diluted net income per
share further included the effect of stock options outstanding during the period
and assumed the conversion of the Company's convertible subordinated debentures
for the period of time such debentures were outstanding.  For the period in
which the Company had a net loss, the net loss per share was computed using only
the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the
period.

     CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS   The Company considers
all highly liquid 

                                       20
<PAGE>
 
investments with a remaining maturity of 90 days or less at the time of purchase
to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost, which approximates
fair value. The Company's short-term investments primarily comprise readily
marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at the
time of purchase.

     The Company has classified its entire investment portfolio as available-
for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are classified as cash equivalents or
short-term investments and are stated at fair value with unrealized gains and
losses included in stockholders' equity. The amortized cost of debt securities
is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity.
Such amortization and accretion are included in interest income. Realized gains
and losses are included in other income (expense). The cost of securities sold
is based on the specific identification method.

     CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK   The Company's customer base for disc drive
products is concentrated with a small number of systems manufacturers and
distributors. Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk are primarily accounts receivable, cash
equivalents and short-term investments. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of its customers' financial condition and, generally, requires no
collateral from its customers. The allowance for noncollection of accounts
receivable is based upon the expected collectibility of all accounts receivable.
The Company places its cash equivalents and short-term investments in investment
grade, short-term debt instruments and limits the amount of credit exposure to
any one commercial issuer.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The following is a summary of available-for-sale securities at July 3, 1998
and June 27, 1997:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                       Fair Value
                                            -------------------------------
In millions                                   July 3, 1998   June 27, 1997
 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>            <C> 
Money market mutual funds                        $   71         $  182
U.S. government and agency obligations              398            364
Repurchase agreements                                81            150
Auction rate preferred stock                        167            227
Municipal bonds                                     102             78
Corporate securities                                612            731
Other                                               301            417
                                                 ------         ------
                    
                                                 $1,732         $2,149 
                                                 ======         ======
 
Included in short-term investments               $1,161         $1,236
Included in cash and cash equivalents               571            913
                                                 ------         ------
                                                 $1,732         $2,149
                                                 ======         ======
</TABLE> 
 
     The fair value of all available-for-sale securities approximates amortized
cost.  Gross realized and unrealized gains and losses on the sale of available-
for-sale securities were not material for each of the three years in the period
ended July 3, 1998.

     The fair value of the Company's investment in debt securities, by
contractual maturity, is as follows:

                                       21
<PAGE>
 
In millions                                July 3, 1998        June 27, 1997 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Due in less than 1 year                        $  771              $1,529
Due in 1 to 3 years                               723                 211
                                               ------              ------

                                               $1,494              $1,740
                                               ======              ======

     FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURES   The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents
approximates fair value. The fair values of short-term investments, notes,
debentures (see Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit footnote) and foreign
currency forward exchange and option contracts are estimated based on quoted
market prices.

     The carrying values and fair values of the Company's financial instruments
are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

In millions                         July 3, 1998               June 27, 1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Carrying   Estimated     Carrying    Estimated
                                  amount    fair value     amount     fair value
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>        <C>           <C>         <C>
Cash and cash equivalents         $  666        $  666        $1,047       $1,047    

Short-term investments             1,161         1,161         1,236        1,236    

7.125% senior notes, due 2004       (200)         (199)         (200)        (200)

7.37% senior notes, due 2007        (200)         (198)         (200)        (201)

7.45% senior debentures, due 2037   (200)         (198)         (200)        (202)

7.875% senior debentures, due 2017  (100)          (98)         (100)        (100)

Italian Lira debentures, 
 14.65% to 15.25%                     (1)           (1)           (1)          (1)

Foreign currency forward exchange 
and option contracts                 (18)          (18)           (2)         (10)
</TABLE>


     DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    The Company may enter into foreign
currency forward exchange and option contracts to manage exposure related to
certain foreign currency commitments, certain foreign currency denominated
balance sheet positions and anticipated foreign currency denominated
expenditures. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. Based on uncertainty in the Southeast Asian foreign
currency markets, beginning in the second quarter of 1998 the Company has
temporarily suspended its hedging program. At July 3, 1998, the Company had
effectively closed out all of its foreign currency forward exchange contracts by
purchasing offsetting contracts and the remaining foreign currency market risk
from derivative financial instruments is not material.

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

     Accounts receivable are summarized below:

In millions                                    1998                 1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accounts receivable                           $ 853                $1,101
Less allowance for noncollection                (54)                  (60)
                                              -----                ------

                                              $ 799                $1,041
                                              =====                ======

                                       22
<PAGE>
 
INVENTORIES

     Inventories are summarized below:

In millions                                            1998       1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
Components                                            $ 172      $ 359
Work-in-process                                          87        134
Finished goods                                          249        315
                                                      -----      -----
                                                      $ 508      $ 808
                                                      =====      =====

PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS

     Property, equipment and leasehold improvements consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Estimated
In millions                                        Useful Life                   1998         1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>                          <C>          <C>
Land                                                                          $    33      $    15
Equipment                                        1-1/2 - 4 years                2,187        1,919
Building and leasehold improvements              Life of lease - 30 years         854          763
Construction in progress                                                          168          362
                                                                              -------      -------
                                                                                3,242        3,059
                                                     
Less accumulated depreciation and amortization                                 (1,573)      (1,272)
                                                                              -------      -------
                                                                              $ 1,669      $ 1,787
                                                                              =======      =======
</TABLE> 

     Equipment and leasehold improvements include assets under capitalized
leases. Amortization of leasehold improvements is included in depreciation
expense. Depreciation expense was $549 million, $451 million and $330 million in
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

     Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired companies
over the estimated fair value of the tangible and specifically identified
intangible net assets acquired.  In accordance with SFAS 121, the carrying value
of these intangibles and related goodwill is reviewed if the facts and
circumstances suggest that they may be permanently impaired.  If this review
indicates these assets' carrying value will not be recoverable, as determined
based on the undiscounted net cash flows of the entity acquired over the
remaining amortization period, the Company's carrying value is reduced to its
estimated fair value (generally based on an estimate of discounted future net
cash flows).  Goodwill and other intangibles are being amortized on a straight-
line basis over periods ranging from two to fifteen years.  Accumulated
amortization was $201 million and  $161 million as of July 3, 1998 and June 27,
1997, respectively.

LONG-TERM DEBT AND LINES OF CREDIT

     Long-term debt consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
In millions                                                                                       1998        1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                               <C>        <C>
7.125% senior notes, due 2004                                                                     $ 200      $ 200
7.37% senior notes, due 2007                                                                        200        200
7.45% senior debentures, due 2037                                                                   200        200
7.875% senior debentures, due 2017                                                                  100        100
Italian Lira debentures, 14.65% to 15.25% notes and loans
   due through 1999                                                                                   1          1
Capitalized lease obligations with interest at 14% to 19.25% collateralized
   by certain manufacturing equipment and buildings                                                   4          2
                                                                                                  -----      -----
                                                                                                    705        703
Less current portion                                                                                  1          1
                                                                                                  -----      -----
                                                                                                  $ 704      $ 702
                                                                                                  =====      =====
</TABLE> 

                                       23
<PAGE>
 
     At July 3, 1998, future minimum principal payments on long-term debt and
capitalized lease obligations were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
In millions
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                   <C>
1999                                                                  $  1
2000                                                                     1
2001                                                                     -
2002                                                                     1
2003                                                                     1
After 2003                                                             701
                                                                      ----
                                                                      $705
                                                                      ====
</TABLE> 

     During 1996 and 1997, the Company called for redemption all its 6.5%,
6.75%, 5% and 6.75% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2002, 2001, 2003 and
2012, respectively.  Approximately $1.054 billion principal amount of the
debentures were converted to approximately 50.8 million shares of the Company's
common stock and approximately $2 million principal amount of the debentures
were redeemed.  None of the 5% debentures were redeemed.

     The Company's 7.125% senior notes due 2004, 7.37% senior notes due 2007 and
7.875% senior debentures due 2017 are redeemable at the option of the Company at
any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (I) 100% of their
principal amount plus accrued interest or (ii) the sum of the present values of
the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted to the
date of redemption at a discount rate (the "discount rate") as set forth in the
indenture governing the notes and debentures plus 10 basis points.  The
Company's 7.45% senior debentures due 2037 are redeemable at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
their principal amount plus accrued interest, (ii) the sum of the present values
of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted to the
date of redemption at the discount rate plus 10 basis points, calculated as if
the principal amount were payable in full on March 1, 2009, or (iii) the sum of
the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest
discounted to the date of redemption at the discount rate plus 10 basis points.
In addition, the Company's 7.45% senior debentures due 2037 will be redeemable
on March 1, 2009, at the option of the holders thereof, at 100% of their
principal amount, together with interest payable to the date of redemption.  The
Company's 7.125% senior notes due 2004, 7.37% senior notes due 2007 and 7.875%
senior debentures due 2017 will not be redeemable at the option of the holders
thereof prior to maturity.  These securities were issued in February 1997 in an
offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

     As of July 3, 1998, the Company had committed lines of credit of $61
million which can be used for standby letters of credit or bankers' guarantees.
These lines of credit were fully utilized at July 3, 1998.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

     The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
income (loss) per share.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
For the years ended                                        July 3,     June 27,    June 28,
In millions, except per share data                          1998         1997        1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                        <C>            <C>         <C> 
Basic Net Income (Loss) Per Share Computation
- ---------------------------------------------
Numerator:
 Net income (loss)                                         $ (530)        $658        $213
                                                           ------         ----        ----

Denominator:
 Weighted average number of common shares
 outstanding during the period                              243.6        233.6        199.7
                                                            -----        -----        -----

Basic net income (loss) per share                          $(2.17)       $2.82        $1.07
                                                           ======        =====        =====
</TABLE> 

                                       24
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<S>                                                        <C>            <C>         <C> 
Diluted Net Income (Loss) Per Share Computation
- -----------------------------------------------
Numerator:
 Net income (loss)                                         $(530)        $ 658        $ 213

 Add convertible subordinated debentures interest,
 net of income tax effect                                      -            17           16
                                                          ------        ------       ------

 Total                                                     $(530)        $ 675        $ 229
                                                          ------        ------       ------

Denominator:
 Weighted average number of common shares
 outstanding during the period                             243.6         233.6        199.7
 
 Incremental common shares attributable to exercise
 of outstanding options (assuming proceeds
 would be used to purchase treasury stock)                     -           7.4          7.2
 
 Incremental common shares attributable to conversion
 of convertible subordinated debentures                        -          16.9         29.2
                                                          ------        ------       ------
 Total                                                     243.6         257.9        236.1
                                                          ------        ------       ------
Diluted net income (loss) per share                       $(2.17)       $ 2.62       $ 0.97
                                                          ======        ======       ======
</TABLE>

Incremental common shares attributable to exercise of outstanding options
(assuming proceeds would be used to purchase treasury stock) of 4,080,000 for
the year ended July 3, 1998, were not included in the diluted net income per
share computation because the effect would be antidilutive due to the net loss
incurred during that period.

EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING AND EXECUTIVE BONUS PLANS

     The Company allocates a certain percentage of adjusted quarterly pretax
profits to its Employee Profit Sharing Plan which is currently distributed to
employees, excluding officers, employed for the full quarter. The Company also
allocates a certain percentage of adjusted quarterly pretax profits to its
Executive Bonus Plan. Distributions to corporate officers under this plan are
subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. Charges to operations for
distributions to employees and/or corporate officers under these Plans during
1998, 1997 and 1996 were $3 million, $115 million and $73 million, respectively.

TAX-DEFERRED SAVINGS PLAN

     The Company has a tax-deferred savings plan, the Seagate Technology, Inc.
Savings and Investment Plan ("the 40l(k) plan"), for the benefit of qualified
employees.  The 40l(k) plan is designed to provide employees with an
accumulation of funds at retirement.  Qualified employees may elect to make
contributions to the 401(k) plan on a monthly basis.  The Company may make
annual contributions to the 401(k) plan at the discretion of the Board of
Directors.  No material contributions were made by the Company for each of the
three years in the period ended July 3, 1998.

                                       25
<PAGE>
 
STOCK-BASED BENEFIT PLANS

STOCK OPTION PLANS    Options granted under the Company's stock option plans are
granted at fair market value, expire ten years from the date of the grant and
generally vest in four equal annual installments, commencing one year from the
date of the grant.

     Following is a summary of stock option activity for the three years ended
July 3, 1998:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
                                                       Options Outstanding
                                              --------------------------------------
                                               Number           Weighted Average
Shares in millions                           of Shares           Exercise Price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>                 <C>
Balance June 30, 1995                            21.4                   $11.45
                     
Granted                                          11.1                    22.30
                                                     
Exercised                                        (6.2)                    8.71                                    
         
Canceled                                         (3.3)                   14.27
                                                      
Elimination of Conner activity for           
  the duplicated six months ended            
  December 31, 1995                                .7                    14.13
                                                -----
                                             
Balance June 28, 1996                            23.7                    16.91
                                                 
Granted                                           6.0                    36.31                                      
       
Exercised                                        (5.2)                   12.15                                    
         
Canceled                                         (2.5)                   20.42
                                                -----
                                             
Balance June 27, 1997                            22.0                    22.92                        
                     
Granted                                          18.3                    27.10                                      
       
Exercised                                        (2.4)                   13.34                                    
         
Canceled                                        (11.9)                   32.62                                     
                                                -----
Balance July 3, 1998                             26.0                   $22.30                         
                                                =====
</TABLE>

     In fiscal 1998, the Company offered to all optionees below the level of
Senior Vice President, who held options with an exercise price higher than the
prevailing fair market value of the Company's common stock the right to exchange
their options for new options exercisable at such fair market value.  In
connection with this transaction, 8.4 million options were exchanged.  The
number of options shown as granted and canceled in the above table reflects this
exchange of options.  Such options had a weighted average exercise price before
repricing of $34.20 and the new options were granted at a weighted average price
of $24.45.

     Options available for grant were 13.6 million at July 3, 1998; 5.1 million
at June 27, 1997; and 9.0 million at June 28, 1996.  On October 30, 1997, the
stockholders approved an amendment to the 1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan to
increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance thereunder
by 15 million.  At July 3, 1998, options to purchase 10.0 million shares of
common stock were exercisable.  The following table summarizes information about
options outstanding at July 3, 1998.  (Shares in millions.)

                                       26
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Outstanding Options                               Exercisable Options  
                            -----------------------------------------------------------     --------------------------------
                                                 Weighted Average
                                   Number        Contractual Life    Weighted Average         Number            Weighted
 Range of exercise prices        of Shares          (in years)        Exercise Price        of Shares         Exercise Price
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------     --------------------------------
<S>                              <C>              <C>                 <C>                   <C>               <C>
$  .00 - $11.06                      3.2              4.93                $ 7.98               3.1               $ 8.05
$11.12 - $21.56                      4.3              6.60                 15.50               2.5                14.27
$21.62 - $28.25                     15.5              8.60                 24.52               3.4                24.32
$28.50 - $51.75                      3.0              8.09                 35.86               1.0                33.83
                                    ----              ----                ------              ----               ------
$  .00 - $51.75                     26.0              7.76                $22.30              10.0               $17.70
</TABLE>

EXECUTIVE STOCK PLAN     The Company has an Executive Stock Plan under which
senior executives of the Company are granted the right to purchase shares of the
Company's common stock at $.01 per share.  The difference between the fair
market value of the shares on the measurement date and the exercise price is
recorded as deferred compensation and is charged to operations over the vesting
period of five or ten years.  In November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors
granted 1,604,000 shares under the plan, subject to stockholder approval of
certain amendments to the plan.  These amendments included the addition of
2,000,000 shares to be issued under the plan.  In February 1996, such
stockholder approval was obtained.  Subsequently in May 1996, an additional
416,500 shares were granted under the plan.  In 1997, 249,500 shares were
granted and 85,000 shares were repurchased under the terms of the plan. In 1998,
453,500 shares were granted and 253,867 shares were repurchased under the terms
of the plan.  At July 3, 1998, 115,367 shares were available for future grants.
In addition, the Company has a Restricted Stock Plan which also has a deferred
compensation component.  Under this plan the deferred compensation is amortized
over a period of seven years.  There are two employees remaining in the plan and
no shares are available for future grant.  The aggregate amount charged to
operations for amortization of deferred compensation under both plans was $8
million, $8 million and $4 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

STOCK PURCHASE PLAN    The Company also maintains an Employee Stock Purchase
Plan. A total of 13,600,000 shares of common stock have been authorized for
issuance under the Purchase Plan. The Purchase Plan permits eligible employees
who have completed thirty days of employment prior to the inception of the
offering period to purchase common stock through payroll deductions generally at
the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the beginning
or at the end of each six-month offering period. Under the plan, 1,348,000;
1,054,000; and 1,129,000 shares of common stock were issued in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively.

          Common stock reserved for future issuance under the Company's Employee
Stock Purchase Plan aggregated 1,426,000 shares at July 3, 1998.  In July 1998,
the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Employee Stock Purchase Plan
to increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance
thereunder by 6 million, subject to stockholder approval at the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.

PRO FORMA INFORMATION     The Company has elected to follow APBO 25 and related
interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because, as
discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS
123 requires use of option valuation models that were not developed for use in
valuing employee stock options.  Under APBO 25, the Company generally recognized
no compensation expense with respect to such options.

          Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required by SFAS 123 for stock options granted after June 30, 1995 as if the
Company had accounted for its stock options under the fair value method of SFAS
123.  The fair value of the Company's stock options was estimated using a Black-
Scholes option valuation model.  The Black-Scholes option valuation model was
developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no
vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.  In addition, the Black-Scholes
model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the
expected stock price volatility.  Because the Company's stock options granted to
employees have characteristics significantly different from those of traded
options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do
not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its stock
options granted to employees.

          The fair value of the Company's stock options granted to employees was
estimated assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted average
assumptions:

                                       27
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                     Stock Option               Employee Stock
                                      Plan Shares            Purchase Plan Shares
                                 ____________________        ____________________
                                 1998    1997    1996        1998    1997    1996
_________________________________________________________________________________
<S>                              <C>     <C>     <C>         <C>     <C>     <C>
Expected life (in years)          3.2     3.5     3.5          .6      .5      .5
Risk-free interest rate           5.5%    6.2%    5.6%        5.5%    5.4%    5.4%
Volatility                         .45     .45     .45         .63     .46     .46
 </TABLE>

     The weighted average fair value of stock options granted under the
Company's Stock Option Plans was $10.05, $14.57 and $9.45 per share in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively. The weighted average fair value of shares granted
under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan was $12.03, $8.89 and $6.00 per
share in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The weighted average purchase price
of shares granted under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan was $26.99,
$27.95 and $23.46 per share in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized over the options' vesting period (for stock options) and
the six month purchase period for stock purchases under the Stock Purchase Plan.
The Company's pro forma information follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
In millions, except per share data                               1998       1997        1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>         <C>          <C>
Pro forma net income (loss)                                    $ (600)     $ 610       $ 195
Pro forma basic net income (loss) per share                     (2.46)      2.64        0.98
Pro forma diluted net income (loss) per share                   (2.46)      2.45        0.90
 </TABLE>
 
     The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying SFAS 123 are not likely to
be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of future years.
Because SFAS 123 is applicable only to options granted subsequent to June 30,
1995, the pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until 1999.

INCOME TAXES

     The provision for (benefit from) income taxes consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
In millions                                          1998            1997            1996
_________________________________________________________________________________________
<S>                                                 <C>              <C>             <C>
Current Tax Expense (Benefit)
     Federal                                        $(157)           $122            $168
     State                                              -               6              28
     Foreign                                           16               9               7  
                                                    -----            ----            ----
                                                      141             137             203
                                                    -----            ----            ----
                                                                  
Deferred Tax Expense (Benefit)
     Federal                                          (19)             65             (76)
     State                                            (20)             14              (9)
     Foreign                                            6              17               -
                                                    -----            ----            ----
                                                      (33)             96             (85)
                                                    -----            ----            ----
Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes           $(174)           $233            $118
                                                    =====            ====            ====
</TABLE>

     The income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options reduces
taxes currently payable and is credited to additional paid-in capital. Such
amounts approximated $12 million, $52 million, and $47 million for 1998, 1997
and 1996, respectively.

     Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The significant
components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities were as follows:

                                       28
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
In millions                                July 3, 1998                  June 27, 1997
______________________________________________________________________________________
<S>                                        <C>                           <C> 
DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
Accrued warranty                                   $151                           $166
Inventory valuation accounts                         38                             33
Receivable reserves                                  29                             29
Accrued compensation and benefits                    27                             36
Depreciation                                         37                             23
Restructuring reserves                               25                             12
Other reserves and accruals                          40                             47
Acquisition related items                            36                             29
Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards      87                             31
Other assets                                          9                              9
                                                  -----                          -----
     Total Deferred Tax Assets                      479                            415
Valuation allowance                                 (82)                           (57)
                                                  -----                          -----
     Net Deferred Tax Assets                        397                            358
                                                  -----                          -----

DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES

Unremitted income of foreign subsidiaries          (549)                          (561)
Acquisition related items                           (19)                           (20)
Other liabilities                                   (21)                            (2)
                                                  -----                          -----
     Total Deferred Tax Liabilities                (589)                          (583)
                                                  -----                          -----
     Net Deferred Tax Liabilities                 $(192)                         $(225)
                                                  =====                          =====

AS REPORTED ON THE BALANCE SHEET

Deferred Income Tax Assets                         $243                           $254
Deferred Income Tax Liabilities                    (435)                          (479)
                                                  -----                          -----
     Net Deferred Tax Liability                   $(192)                         $(225)
                                                  =====                          =====
</TABLE>

     The valuation allowance has been provided for deferred tax assets related
to certain foreign net operating loss carryforwards, foreign tax credit
carryforwards and future tax benefits associated with the acquisition of certain
software companies.  The valuation allowance increased by $25 million, $20
million and $15 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     The Company, as of July 3, 1998, has domestic, foreign and state net
operating loss carryforwards of approximately $36 million, $47 million and $500
million, respectively,  expiring in 1999 through 2013 if not used to offset
future taxable income.  The Company, as of July 3, 1998, also has tax credit
carryforwards of approximately $36 million expiring in 2000 through 2013 if not
used to offset future tax liabilities.

     The differences between the provision for (benefit from) income taxes at
the U.S. statutory rate and the effective rate are summarized as follows:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
In millions                                                           1998         1997          1996
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________
<S>                                                                 <C>            <C>           <C>
Provision (benefit) at U.S. statutory rate                          $(246)         $312          $116
State income tax provision (benefit), net                             (15)           19            10
Benefit from net earnings of foreign subsidiaries considered
   to be permanently invested in non-U.S. operations                    -           (97)          (59)
Write-off of in-process research and development                       75             -            30
Restructuring                                                           -             -            18
Valuation reserve                                                      25            19            15
Other individually immaterial items                                   (13)          (20)          (12)
                                                                    -----          ----          ----
Provision for (benefit from) income taxes                           $(174)         $233          $118
                                                                    =====          ====          ====
</TABLE>

          A substantial portion of the Company's Far East manufacturing
operations in Singapore, Thailand, China and Malaysia operate free of tax under
various tax holidays which expire in whole or in part during fiscal years 1999

                                       29
<PAGE>
 
through 2005. Certain tax holidays may be extended if specific conditions are
met. The tax holidays had no impact on the net loss in 1998. The net impact of
these tax holidays was to increase net income by approximately $71 million
($0.28 per share, diluted) in 1997 and approximately $50 million ($0.21 per
share, diluted) in 1996. Cumulative undistributed earnings of the Company's Far
East subsidiaries for which no income taxes have been provided aggregated
approximately $1.439 billion at July 3, 1998. These earnings are considered to
be permanently invested in non-U.S. operations. Additional federal and state
taxes of approximately $518 million would have to be provided if these earnings
were repatriated to the U.S.

     The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 27, 1997
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to taxable years 1991 through 1993
assessing potential deficiencies approximating $39 million plus interest and
approximately $6 million of penalties.  The Company petitioned the United States
Tax Court on September 24, 1997 for a re-determination of the deficiencies.  The
Company believes that the outcome of this matter will not have a material
adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

     The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 12, 1998
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to Conner's taxable years 1991 and
1992 assessing potential deficiencies approximating $11 million plus interest.
The Company believes it has meritorious defenses to the Internal Revenue Service
adjustments but has not yet determined the forum in which it will contest the
proposed deficiencies.  The Company believes that the likely outcome of this
matter will not have a material adverse effect on its financial position or
results of operations.

     Certain of the Company's foreign and state tax returns for various fiscal
years are under examination by taxing authorities.  The Company believes that
adequate amounts of tax have been provided for any final assessments which may
result from these examinations.

MERGER WITH CONNER

     On February 2, 1996, the Company and Conner Peripherals, Inc. ("Conner")
merged after approval by the stockholders of both companies.  To effect the
combination, Seagate issued 48,956,044 shares of its common stock in exchange
for all the outstanding common stock of Conner and issued options to purchase
4,939,160 shares of Seagate common stock in exchange for all the outstanding
options to purchase Conner common stock.  The merger has been accounted for as a
pooling of interests and, accordingly, all periods prior to the merger presented
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been restated to
include the accounts and operations of Conner.  Conner was involved in the
design, manufacture and marketing of information storage products including disc
drives, tape drives and storage management software.  Combined and separate
results of the Company and Conner for the periods prior to the acquisition were
as follows:

For the year ended
In millions                                   June 28, 1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------
Revenue:
 Prior to December 30, 1995:
  Seagate                                            $3,016
  Conner                                              1,464
Combined results after December 29, 1995              4,108
                                                     ------
                                                     $8,588
                                                     ======
Net Income:
 Prior to December 30, 1995:
  Seagate                                           $  232
  Conner                                                37
 Combined results after December 29, 1995              (56)
                                                    ------
                                                    $  213
                                                    ======
 
     The combined net loss after December 29, 1995 (see table above) of $56
million includes a $168 million restructuring charge, net of related tax effect,
as a result of the merger with Conner and an $89 million write-off of in-process
research and development, net of related tax effect, incurred in connection with
the acquisitions of software companies.

     The two companies maintained a majority of similar accounting practices.
However, as a result of certain differing accounting practices relating to the
capitalization of fixed assets and inventory, certain adjustments to net assets
were made to conform accounting practices of the two companies. None of these
adjustments was material to any period presented.

                                       30
<PAGE>
 
ACQUISITIONS

     In June 1998, the Company acquired Eastman Software Storage Management
Group, Inc., a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Company, the developer of storage
migration software technology for distributed networks, for $10 million. As a
result of the acquisition, the Company incurred a one-time write-off of in-
process research and development of $7 million.

     In April and June 1997, the Company invested an aggregate of $20 million
to acquire approximately ten percent (10%) of the outstanding stock of Quinta
Corporation ("Quinta"), a developer of ultra-high capacity disc drive
technologies, including a new optically-assisted Winchester (OAW) technology.
In August 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of Quinta. Pursuant to
the purchase agreement with Quinta, the shareholders of Quinta, other than
Seagate, received cash payments aggregating $230 million upon the closing of
the acquisition and were eligible to receive additional cash payments
aggregating $95 million upon the achievement of certain product development
and early production milestones. Of the $95 million, $19 million was paid or
accrued in fiscal 1998. In July 1998, the Company and Quinta amended the
purchase agreement to eliminate the product development and early production
milestones and provide that the former shareholders of Quinta will be eligible
to receive the remaining $76 million and the $14 million that had been
accrued but unpaid in fiscal 1998. In the first quarter of fiscal 1999, the
Company expects to take a charge to operations for the remaining $76 million.
As a result of this acquisition, the Company incurred a one-time write-off of
in-process research and development of approximately $214 million. Intangibles
arising from the acquisition of Quinta are being amortized on a straight-line
basis over two years. This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and,
accordingly, the results of operations of Quinta have been included in the
Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.

     In connection with the merger with Conner, on February 16, 1996, the
Company acquired the minority interest in Arcada Holdings, Inc. ("Arcada"),
formerly a majority-owned subsidiary of Conner.  Seagate acquired the minority
interest in Arcada by exchanging 2,553,340 shares of Seagate common stock and
options to purchase 1,813,936 shares of Arcada common stock (equivalent to
approximately $85 million, net of the exercise proceeds of the options acquired,
based on a market value of $20.37 per share of Seagate common stock) for all the
outstanding common stock and options to purchase common stock of Arcada.  Arcada
developed, marketed and supported data protection and storage management
software products that operate across multiple desktop and client/server
environments.  This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and,
accordingly, the results of operations of the minority interest have been
included in the consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition
of such minority interest.  Goodwill and other intangibles arising from the
acquisition are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging
from two to seven years.  As a result of the acquisition, the Company incurred a
one-time write-off of in-process research and development of $44 million.

     During the year ended June 28, 1996, the Company acquired Sytron
Corporation, a storage management software company; OnDemand Software, Inc. and
Calypso Software Systems, Inc., both network management software companies;
Holistic Systems Ltd. ("Holistic"), an information management software company;
and Stormex, S.A. de C.V., a media substrate manufacturer. These acquisitions
were accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the results of operations of
the acquired businesses have been included in the consolidated financial
statements from the date of acquisition. The total cost of all businesses
acquired for cash in 1996 was $131 million, $20 million of which was paid
subsequent to 1996. Goodwill and other intangibles arising from the acquisitions
are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from one to
seven years. As a result of the 1996 acquisitions, the Company incurred one-time
write-offs of in-process research and development totaling $99 million. As a
result of the payments out of escrow in fiscal year 1997 to former stockholders
of Holistic, the Company incurred one-time write-offs of compensation expense
and in-process research and development of $13 million and $3 million,
respectively. The compensation expense is included in unusual items on the
consolidated statement of operations. The operations of the acquired companies
prior to the date of acquisition were not material to the Company's revenue or
net income.

     In 1998, the Company increased its investment in Dragon Systems, a maker of
voice recognition software, by $18 million. Goodwill arising from the equity
investment in Dragon Systems is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
seven years. In 1996, the Company increased its investment in SanDisk
Corporation, a flash memory manufacturer, by $10 million. Goodwill arising from
the equity investment in SanDisk Corporation is being amortized on a straight-
line basis over seven years.

RESTRUCTURING

     In the quarters ended January 2, 1998 and April 3, 1998, the Company
recorded restructuring charges aggregating $347 million.  These charges reflect
steps the Company is taking to align worldwide operations with 

                                       31
<PAGE>
 
current market conditions and to improve the productivity of its operations and
the efficiency of its development efforts. The restructuring charges comprised
$57 million for reduction of personnel due to closure or consolidation of
certain operations, $78 million for closure of excess facilities, $148 million
to write off or write down equipment, intangibles and other assets whose value
had become permanently impaired, and $64 million for contract cancellations and
other expenses. The net book value of equipment disposed of or to be disposed of
as a result of implementation of the restructuring plan is $181 million.
Valuation of these assets was based on estimated fair values.

     In connection with this restructuring the Company currently expects a
workforce reduction of approximately 15,000 employees.  Of the 15,000 employees,
8,144 are involuntary terminations of regular, full-time employees, 1,528 are
contract laborers, primarily engaged through temporary employment agencies, and
the remainder represent attrition.  Approximately 14,100 of the 15,000
employees, including 7,959 of the 8,144 involuntary terminations of regular,
full-time employees, had been terminated as of July 3, 1998. The Company
anticipates that the implementation of the restructuring plan will be
substantially complete by the end of December 1998.

     The following table summarizes the Company's restructuring activity for the
year ended July 3, 1998:

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 

                                                                                 CONTRACT
                                                             EQUIPMENT,        CANCELLATIONS
                           SEVERANCES        EXCESS         INTANGIBLES          AND OTHER
IN MILLIONS               AND BENEFITS     FACILITIES     AND OTHER ASSETS       EXPENSES         TOTAL
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                       <C>              <C>            <C>                  <C>                <C>
Restructuring charges         $ 57            $ 78             $ 148              $ 64           $ 347
Cash charges                   (48)             (3)                -               (49)           (100)
Non-cash charges                 -             (55)             (148)                -            (203)
                              ----            ----             -----              ----           -----
Reserve balances,
 July 3, 1998                 $  9            $ 20             $   -              $ 15           $  44
                              ====            ====             =====              ====           =====
</TABLE>

     In 1996, the Company recorded restructuring charges totaling $242 million
as a result of the merger with Conner.  During the first quarter of 1997, the
Company reversed $10 million of its restructuring reserves as a result of the
completion of certain aspects of the restructuring plan at less than the
originally estimated cost. As of July 3, 1998, the implementation of such
restructuring plan was substantially complete.

BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company operates in a single industry segment by designing,
manufacturing and marketing products for storage, retrieval and management of
data on computer and data communications systems.  These products include disc
drives and disc drive components, tape drives and software.
 
     The following tables summarize the Company's operations in different
geographic areas:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Adjustments                     
Year Ended July 3, 1998                 United           Far              and                         
In millions                             States           East         Eliminations        Consolidated        
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                                     <C>             <C>           <C>                 <C>
Sales to unaffiliated customers         $3,643          $3,176           $     -             $6,819

Transfers between geographic areas       1,425           6,302            (7,727)                 -
                                        ------          ------           -------             ------

Total revenue                           $5,068          $9,478           $(7,727)            $6,819
                                        ======          ======           =======             ======

Income (loss) from operations           $ (721)         $   35           $     -             $ (686)

Other income (expense), net                (57)             39                 -                (18)
                                        ------          ------           -------             ------

Income (loss) before income taxes       $ (778)         $   74           $     -              $ (704)
                                        ======          ======           =======             ======

Identifiable assets                     $2,337          $3,308           $     -              $5,645
                                        ======          ======           =======             ======
</TABLE>

                                       32
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Adjustments                     
Year Ended June 27, 1997                United           Far              and                         
In millions                             States           East         Eliminations        Consolidated        
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                                     <C>            <C>            <C>                 <C>
Sales to unaffiliated customers         $5,216         $ 3,724         $       -              $8,940

Transfers between geographic areas       1,398           6,463            (7,861)                  -
                                        ------         -------         ---------              ------

Total revenue                           $6,614         $10,187         $  (7,861)             $8,940
                                        ======         =======         =========              ======

Income from operations                     $44            $814         $       -                $858



Other income (expense), net                 (3)             36                 -                  33
                                        ------         -------         ---------              ------

Income before income taxes              $   41         $   850         $       -              $  891
                                        ======         =======         =========              ======

Identifiable assets                     $3,050         $ 3,673         $       -              $6,723
                                        ======         =======         =========              ======
 
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Adjustments                     
Year Ended June 28, 1996                United           Far              and                         
In millions                             States           East         Eliminations        Consolidated        
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                                     <C>            <C>           <C>                 <C>
Sales to unaffiliated customers         $5,888         $2,700            $     -            $8,588

Transfers between geographic areas       1,272          6,248             (7,520)                -
                                        ------         ------            -------            ------

Total revenue                           $7,160         $8,948            $(7,520)           $8,588
                                        ======         ======            =======            ======

Income (loss) from operations           $  (77)        $  364            $     -            $  287

Other income (expense), net                  -             44                  -                44
                                        ------         ------            -------            ------

Income (loss) before income taxes       $  (77)        $  408            $     -            $  331
                                        ======         ======            =======            ======

Identifiable assets                     $2,311         $2,929            $     -            $5,240
                                        ======         ======            =======            ======
</TABLE>

     Sales and transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
which, in general, provide a profit after coverage of all manufacturing costs.
Income from operations is revenue less operating expenses.  The identifiable
assets by geographic area are those assets used in the Company's operations in
each area.

     The Company's European operations include sales offices and distribution
warehouses.  The sales offices and distribution warehouses do not qualify as
revenue-producing operations in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 14, "Financial Reporting for Segments of a Business
Enterprise" ("SFAS 14") and thus do not qualify to be disclosed as a separate
geographic area.  The distribution warehouses merely facilitate sales for the
Singapore and Thailand manufacturing operations and are thus included in the Far
East geographic area in the tables above.  Other European operations that do
qualify as revenue-producing operations do not meet the materiality criteria of
SFAS 14 and thus are not disclosed as a separate geographic area.

     In 1998 and 1997, Compaq Computer Corporation accounted for more than 10%
of consolidated revenue 

                                       33
<PAGE>
 
for a total of $873 million and $995 million, respectively. No customer
accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue in 1996.

     Net foreign currency transaction   losses included in the determination of
net income (loss) were $252 million, $2 million and $8 million for 1998, 1997,
and 1996, respectively.

                                       34
<PAGE>
 
LITIGATION

PATENT LITIGATION In November 1992, Rodime, PLC ("Rodime") filed a complaint
in Federal Court for the Central District of California, alleging infringement
of U.S. Patent No. B1 4,638,383 and various state law unfair competition
claims. It was the opinion of the Company's patent counsel that the Company's
products do not infringe any valid claims of the Rodime patent in suit and
thus the Company refused Rodime's offer of a license for its patents. Other
companies, however, such as IBM, Hewlett-Packard and a number of Japanese
companies have reportedly made payments to and taken licenses from Rodime. On
October 24, 1997 the Court entered a Final Judgment against Rodime and in
favor of Seagate. Rodime has appealed the final judgment. The appeal before
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit will be heard in September 1998.
The Company intends to vigorously defend itself in the appeal brought by
Rodime.

     On October 5, 1994, a patent infringement action was filed against the
Company by an individual, James M. White, in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent Nos.
4,673,996 and 4,870,519. Both patents relate to air bearing sliders. Prior to
the filing of the lawsuit, the Company filed a Petition for Reexamination of
U.S. Patent No. 4,673,996 with the United States Patent and Trademark Office
("PTO") and this Petition was granted shortly after the lawsuit was filed.
Subsequently, the Company filed a Petition for Reexamination of U.S. Patent
No. 4,870,519. This second petition was also granted by the PTO. The District
Court stayed the action pending the outcome of the Reexaminations. Both
patents have completed reexamination and the stay of the action has been
lifted. Mr. White's lawyers filed a motion seeking a preliminary injunction to
stop the sale of certain of the Company's products. The Court denied the
motion on July 1, 1997. On April 27, 1998, the Court entered an order
establishing a construction of the claims in Mr. White's patents which is
broader than the construction which the Company advocated, and on June 25,
1998, the Court denied reconsideration of the April 27 order. The Court has
set a February 1999 trial date. It is the opinion of the Company's patent
counsel that the Company's products do not infringe any valid or enforceable
claims of the patents involved in the suit. The Company intends to vigorously
defend itself against any and all charges of infringement of these patents.

     On December 16, 1996, a patent infringement action was filed against the
Company by an individual, Virgle Hedgcoth, in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, San Jose Division, for alleged infringement of
U.S. Patent Nos. 4,735,840; 5,082,747; and 5,316,864.  These patents relate to
sputtered magnetic thin-film recording discs for computers and their
manufacture.  The Company answered the complaint denying infringement, alleging
that the patents are invalid and unenforceable, and counterclaiming for
declaratory judgment that a fourth Hedgcoth patent, No. 4,894,133, is invalid,
unenforceable and not infringed.  Additionally, on July 1, 1997, Mr. Hedgcoth
filed a patent infringement action against the Company in the same Court for
alleged infringement of a fifth patent, U.S. Patent No. 5,262,970, issued May 6,
1997.  It is the opinion of the Company's patent counsel that the Company's
products do not infringe any valid or enforceable claims of the patents in the
two actions, and that the claims of the patents in the two actions are invalid
or unenforceable.  The Company intends to vigorously defend itself against any
and all charges of infringement of Mr. Hedgcoth's patents.

     Papst Licensing, GmbH, has given the Company notice that it believes
certain former Conner Peripherals, Inc. ("Conner") disc drives infringe several
of its patents covering the use of spindle motors in disc drives.  It is the
opinion of the Company's patent counsel that the former Conner disc drives do
not infringe any claims of the patents and that the asserted claims of the
patents are invalid.  The Company also believes that subsequent to the merger
with Conner, the Company's earlier paid-up license under Papst's patents
extinguishes any ongoing liability.  The Company also believes it enjoys the
benefit of a license under Papst's patents since Papst Licensing had granted a
license to motor vendors of Conner.

     In the normal course of business, the Company receives and makes inquiry
with regard to other possible intellectual property matters including alleged
patent infringement.  Where deemed advisable, the Company may seek or extend
licenses or negotiate settlements.

OTHER MATTERS   The Company is involved in a number of other judicial and
administrative proceedings incidental to its business.  Although occasional
adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur, the Company believes that the
final disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position or results of operations.

                                       35
<PAGE>
 
COMMITMENTS

LEASES   The Company leases certain property, facilities and equipment under
noncancelable lease agreements. Land and facility leases expire at various dates
through 2082 and contain various provisions for rental adjustments including, in
certain cases, a provision based on increases in the Consumer Price Index. All
of the leases require the Company to pay property taxes, insurance and normal
maintenance costs.

     Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial or
remaining terms of one year or more were as follows at July 3, 1998:

                                                          Operating
In millions                                                Leases
 -------------------------------------------------------------------
1999                                                          $  58
2000                                                             44
2001                                                             27
2002                                                             30
2003                                                             19
After 2003                                                      133
                                                              -----
                                                              $ 311
                                                              =====

     Total rent expense for all land, facility and equipment operating leases
was approximately $58 million, $51 million and $45 million for 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES The Company's commitments for construction of manufacturing
facilities and equipment approximated $173 million at July 3, 1998.

SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

In millions                                         1998      1997       1996
________________________________________________________________________________
Cash Transactions:

   Cash paid for interest                           $ 52     $  26      $  64

   Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds         (1)       59        208

Non-Cash Transactions:

   Conversion of debentures                         $  -     $ 788      $ 266

                                       36
<PAGE>
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Seagate Technology, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Seagate
Technology, Inc. as of July 3, 1998 and June 27, 1997, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended July 3, 1998. These consolidated
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Seagate Technology, Inc. at July 3, 1998 and June 27, 1997, and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended July 3, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.


                                                            Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
July 14, 1998, except for the second paragraph of the 
Acquisitions note, as to which the date is July 31, 1998 
and the first and second paragraphs of the Patent 
Litigation note, as to which the date is August 17, 1998.

                                       37
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1
                            SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF
NAME OF SUBSIDIARY                            INCORPORATION
- ------------------                            -------------
<S>                                           <C>                  
Seagate Technology S.A.                       France               
Seagate Technology GmbH                       Germany              
Seagate Technology S.r.l.                     Italy                
Seagate Technology AB                         Sweden               
Nippon Seagate Inc.                           Japan                
Seagate Technology Taiwan Ltd.                Taiwan               
Seagate Technology Korea Limited              Korea                
Seagate Technology Australia Pty. Limited     Australia            
Seagate Foreign Sales Corporation             Virgin Islands       
Seagate Microelectronics Limited              Scotland             
Seagate Technology (Hong Kong) Limited        Hong Kong            
Seagate Distribution (UK) Limited             Scotland             
Seagate Singapore Distribution Pte. Ltd.      Singapore            
Quinta Corporation                            California           
Seagate Storage Networking, Inc.              Delaware             
Seagate Technology SAN/NAS                    Delaware             
Seagate Technology International              Cayman Islands, BWI  
    Seagate Technology (Ireland)              Cayman Islands, BWI  
    Seagate Technology (Ireland Holdings)     Cayman Islands, BWI  
    Penang Seagate Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd.   Malaysia             
    Seagate Technology Asia Holdings          Cayman Islands, BWI  
       Senai Seagate Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia             
    P.T. Seagate Technology                   Indonesia            
    Seagate Technology (Thailand) Limited     Thailand              
    Seagate Technology China Holding             
     Company                                  Cayman Islands, BWI
       Seagate Technology Shenzhen Co. Ltd.   China
    Seagate Technology International         
     (Wuxi) Co. Ltd.                          China
    Perai Seagate Storage Products Sdn. Bhd.  Malaysia
    Seagate Technology Finance Limited        Cayman Islands, BWI
    Seagate Technology Media Mexico S.A.     
     de C.V.                                  Mexico
    Seagate Technology Media (Ireland)        Cayman Islands, BWI
    Seagate Technology (Philippines)          Cayman Islands, BWI
    Seagate Technology International         
     Holdings                                 Cayman Islands, BWI
       Seagate Software Information           
        Management Group (Canada), Inc.       Canada
Seagate Technology Investments, Inc.          Delaware
Seagate Software, Inc.                        Delaware
    Seagate Software Network & Storage        
     Management Group, Inc                    Delaware
    Seagate Software Pty. Limited             Australia
    Seagate Software S.A.                     France
    Seagate Software Limited                  United Kingdom
    Seagate Software GmbH                     Germany 
    Seagate Software Information              
     Management Group Ltd.                    United Kingdom
    Seagate Software Information              
     Management Group AB                      Sweden
    Seagate Software Information              
     Management Group BV                      Holland
    Seagate Software (Hong Kong) Limited      Hong Kong
    Nippon Seagate Software KK.               Japan 
    Seagate Software Information              
     Management Group GmbH                    Germany
    Seagate Software Information Pte. Ltd.    Singapore
    Seagate Software Information              
     Management Group (US), Inc.              Colorado
    Seagate Software International            
     Holdings Ltd.                            Cayman Islands, BWI
    Seagate Software GmbH                     Switzerland
    Seagate Software Storage Management                     
     Group, Inc.                              Delaware
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.1
 
              CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-
K) of Seagate Technology, Inc. of our report dated July 14, 1998, except for
the second paragraph of the Acquisitions note, as to which the date is July
31, 1998, and the first and second paragraphs of the Patent Litigation note,
as to which the date is August 17, 1998, included in the 1998 Annual Report to
Stockholders of Seagate Technology, Inc.
 
  Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Seagate
Technology, Inc. listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on
our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to
above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.
 
  We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements (Form S-8 No. 33-43911, 33-50973, 33-39916, 33-56215, 33-34793, 33-
64339, 333-00697, 333-01059, 333-40005), pertaining to the 1991 Incentive
Stock Option Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Executive Stock
Option Plan of Seagate Technology, Inc., the 1992 Conner Peripherals, Inc.
Restricted Stock Plan and the Arcada Holdings, Inc. Stock Option Plan, and in
the related prospectus, of our report dated July 14, 1998, except for the
second paragraph of the Acquisitions note, as to which the date is July 31,
1998, and the first and second paragraphs of the Patent Litigation note, as to
which the date is August 17, 1998, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements incorporated herein by reference, and our report included in the
preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule included
in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Seagate Technology, Inc.
 
                                          Ernst & Young LLP
 
San Jose, California
August 18, 1998
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET AS OF JULY 3, 1998 AND THE CONSOLIDATED
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED JULY 3, 1998 AND IS QUALIFIED
IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUL-03-1998
<PERIOD-START>                             JUN-28-1997
<PERIOD-END>                               JUL-03-1998
<CASH>                                         666,041
<SECURITIES>                                 1,160,511
<RECEIVABLES>                                  852,837
<ALLOWANCES>                                    54,130
<INVENTORY>                                    508,133
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             3,614,584
<PP&E>                                       3,242,042
<DEPRECIATION>                               1,573,321
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               5,644,597
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        1,374,998
<BONDS>                                        703,410
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         2,519
<OTHER-SE>                                   2,933,950
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 5,644,597
<SALES>                                      6,818,524
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             6,818,524
<CGS>                                        5,830,305
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                5,830,305
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                             1,172,811
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              51,157
<INCOME-PRETAX>                               (704,032)
<INCOME-TAX>                                  (174,469)
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                           (529,563)
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                  (529,563)
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    (2.17)
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    (2.17)
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
