-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 WCe5mdgVgwnHvfjp/vsWCTHcE9DU6dXKH4lJeW0+B2XwtmzA/ETIxiLkIN1bP5Au
 FDknZPvOhwBKPqdM985cvQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000891618-99-001260.txt : 19990331
<SEC-HEADER>0000891618-99-001260.hdr.sgml : 19990331
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891618-99-001260
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19981231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALTERA CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000768251
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				770016691
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-16617
		FILM NUMBER:		99578602

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 INNOVATION DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085448000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		101 INNOVATION DR
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
================================================================================


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                               ------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
                               ------------------

(MARK ONE)

     [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

                                       OR

     [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                                ----------------

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-16617

                               ALTERA CORPORATION
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)

                                    DELAWARE
                         (State or Other Jurisdiction of
                         Incorporation or Organization)

                                   77-0016691
                                (I.R.S. Employer
                               Identification No.)

                101 INNOVATION DRIVE, SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA 95134
               (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code: (408) 544-7000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                      NONE

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                  COMMON STOCK
                                (Title of Class)
                              --------------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive
proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this
Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]


<PAGE>   2
     The aggregate market value of the registrant's Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $5,006,483,241 as of March 1,
1999, based upon the closing sale price on the Nasdaq National Market for that
date.

     There were 98,325,177 shares of the registrant's Common Stock issued and
outstanding as of March 1, 1999.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Items 5 and 6 of Part II incorporate information by reference from the 
Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998. 

     Items 11, 12 and 13 of Part III incorporate information by reference from
the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 26,
1999.

================================================================================
<PAGE>   3
Except for the historical information presented, the matters discussed in this
Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected
in the forward-looking statements as a result of risk factors that include, but
are not limited to, those discussed under the caption "Future Results" under
Item 7 herein, as well as factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K.


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

GENERAL

Altera Corporation ("Altera" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and markets
programmable logic devices ("PLDs") and associated development tools.
Programmable logic devices are semiconductor integrated circuits ("chips" or
"ICs") that offer on-site programmability to customers using the Company's
proprietary software, which operates on personal computers and engineering
workstations. Founded in 1983, Altera was the first supplier of CMOS
programmable logic devices and is currently a global leader in this market. The
Company offers a broad line of CMOS programmable logic devices that address
high-speed, high-density and lower power applications. The Company's products
serve a wide range of markets, including telecommunications, data
communications, electronic data processing (EDP) and industrial applications.

STRATEGY

According to Dataquest, the Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor ("CMOS")
logic market consists of the following segments: semi-custom or application
specific integrated circuits ("ASICs"), standard logic, full custom devices and
other forms of logic ICs, including chipsets. The ASIC segment is comprised of
programmable logic, gate arrays and cell-based ICs (also referred to as standard
cells). In a broad sense, all of these devices are indirectly competitive as
they generally may be used in the same types of applications in electronic
products. However, differences in cost, performance, density, flexibility, ease
of use and time-to-market dictate the extent to which they may be directly
competitive for particular applications.

Programmable logic's primary advantage is that it allows for quicker design
cycles meeting customers' needs for quick time-to-market. Programmable logic
allows customers to experiment and iterate their designs in a relatively short
amount of time and with minimum cost. In most instances, this is quicker and
easier than achieving a design in a deterministic fashion. This advantage is
amplified by the ability to have working silicon at the time the design is
finalized.

Another advantage of programmable logic is that, particularly for small volume
applications, it lowers the per unit cost of producing customized components.
While programmable logic inherently consumes more silicon (because of its
generality and on-chip programming overhead), in many cases this higher per unit
cost is more than offset by the high fixed costs of layout and mask-making
required to produce a custom IC. The cost advantage is further enhanced by the
flexibility of the inventory and the fact that customization occurs closer to
the end application.

Due to PLD cost decreases through high-volume manufacturing and the use of
emerging process technologies, Altera has been able to introduce new product
families that, as compared with their predecessors, provide more functionality
at a much lower price for any given density. These new product families achieve
the integration, density, performance and cost advantages of other ASIC
solutions. The Company believes that its competitiveness within the ASIC segment
in these areas, along with the inherent advantages of programmable logic
discussed above, will enable it to compete for designs traditionally served by
other ASICs. In the short term, the lower prices associated with the Company's
new product offerings have slowed and will continue to slow its sales growth.
However, Altera believes that these new product offerings will be important to
sustaining long-term sales growth as they broaden the appeal of programmable
logic. See "--Competition."


                                       2
<PAGE>   4

PRODUCTS

Altera sells a wide range of products, with a total of more than 1000 product
options among its PLD families. The Company offers PLDs in two fundamental
technologies: its MAX products which use floating gate process technology and
its FLEX and APEX products which use SRAM-based process technology. Altera's
proprietary software, MAX+PLUS II and Quartus, provides design development and
programming support for all its PLDs. Altera also offers hardware used in
programming PLDs.

Devices:

Altera offers a wide range of general-purpose PLD families. Each device family
offers unique features as well as differing density and performance
specifications for implementing particular applications. Some of Altera's major
device families include the following:

MAX 7000: The MAX 7000 device family is one of the fastest and most widely used
high-density programmable logic families in the industry. Devices in this family
range from 600 to 10,000 usable gates and up to 256 pins. The MAX 7000 device
family, which includes the 5.0-V MAX 7000S and 3.3-V MAX 7000A devices, is
fabricated on an advanced CMOS EEPROM process, providing a high-density,
high-speed, I/O-intensive programmable logic solution. MAX 7000S devices provide
several enhanced features, including support for the JTAG boundary-scan test
circuitry and in-system programmability ("ISP"). ISP functionality allows
devices to be programmed after they are soldered onto the printed circuit board,
thereby minimizing the possibility of lead damage or electrostatic discharge
exposure. MAX 7000A devices operate at a 3.3-V supply voltage, offering lower
power while providing the industry's fastest pin-to-pin speeds.

MAX 9000: The MAX 9000 device family offers the efficient macrocell
architecture of MAX 7000 devices with higher densities and performance. Devices
in this family range from 6,000 to 12,000 usable gates and up to 356 pins. The
EEPROM-based MAX 9000 devices are PCI-compliant and offer 5.0-V ISP.

FLEX 8000: The SRAM-based FLEX 8000 device family uses the Altera-patented
FastTrack Interconnect, a continuous routing structure that allows for fast,
predictable interconnect delays. Devices in this family range from 2,500 to
16,000 usable gates and up to 304 pins. FLEX 8000 devices have a 5.0-V supply
voltage and can interface with 3.3-V device through the MultiVolt I/O feature.
These SRAM-based devices provide low standby power and in-system
reconfigurability.

FLEX 6000: Altera's SRAM-based FLEX 6000 family delivers the flexibility and
time-to-market advantage of programmable logic at prices that are competitive
with gate arrays. Devices in this family range from 10,000 to 24,000 usable
gates and up to 256 pins and include devices that operate at both 5.0-V and
3.3-V supply voltages. Featuring the very efficient OptiFLEX architecture, FLEX
6000 devices provide a flexible and cost-effective alternative to gate arrays
for high-volume production. Every feature in the OptiFLEX architecture is
targeted at producing maximum performance and utilization in the smallest
possible die area.

FLEX 10K: Altera's SRAM-based FLEX 10K family offers a combination of logic and
embedded memory on a single chip architecture. Devices in this embedded PLD
family range from 10,000 to 250,000 usable gates and up to 600 pins. With these
high densities, the FLEX 10K family may be used to address the increasing levels
of integration needed to accommodate today's complex system-on-a-chip designs.
FLEX 10K devices, offered in 2.5-V, 3.3-V and 5.0-V supply voltages, have a
unique embedded architecture made up of both a logic array and an embedded
memory array.

APEX 20K: Altera's SRAM-based APEX 20K family offers complete system-level
integration on a single device. Devices in this family are planned to range from
100,000 to 1,000,000 usable gates and up to 780 pins. With its high densities
and performance enhancements, the APEX 20K family is expected to deliver the
latest in design flexibility and efficiency for high-performance,
System-on-a-Programmable-Chip design. APEX 20K devices, to be offered in 1.8-V
and 2.5-V supply voltages, employ the innovative MultiCore architecture, which
combines and enhances the strengths of its three previous PLD architectures. The
APEX 20K devices first became available in March 1999 and are supported by
Altera's Quartus development software.


                                       3
<PAGE>   5

Development Tools:

The Company's development system software and hardware are used to design and
implement logic designs on its PLDs. Altera's MAX+PLUS II and Quartus software
runs under the Microsoft Windows 95 and NT operating environments on personal
computers in addition to the UNIX environment on SUN, HP and IBM workstations.
The Company also provides interfaces to many industry standard electronic design
automation ("EDA") tools, including those offered by Cadence Design Systems,
Inc., Mentor Graphics Corporation and Synopsys, Inc. The Company also sells
hardware for programming its PLDs.

MARKETING, SALES AND CUSTOMERS

The Company markets its products in the United States and Canada through a
network of direct sales personnel, independent sales representatives and
electronics distributors. The Company also has domestic sales management offices
in major metropolitan areas throughout the United States. The Company's direct
sales personnel and independent sales representatives focus on major strategic
accounts. Distributors generally focus selling activities on the broad base of
small and medium-size customers, as well as demand fulfillment services to
Altera's major strategic accounts.

In the United States, Altera's distributors currently include Arrow Electronics
Inc. and Wyle Electronics (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Raab Karcher AG). These
distributors are responsible for creating customer demand from their base of
customers, providing technical support and other value-added services and
filling customers' orders. From time to time, the Company expects that it may
add or delete distributors from its selling organization as it deems appropriate
to the level of business.

The Company's international business is supported by a network of distributors
throughout Europe and Asia. The Company has representation in every major
European country, Israel, Australia, South America and various countries
throughout the Pacific Rim including Japan. International sales management
offices are located in the metropolitan areas of Hong Kong, Hsinchu (Taiwan),
London, Munich, Ottawa, Paris, Seoul, Stockholm, Tokyo and Turin.

Customer service and support are important aspects of the sales and marketing of
the Company's products. Altera provides several levels of technical user
support, including applications assistance, design services and customer
training. The Company's applications engineering staff publishes data sheets and
application notes, conducts technical seminars and provides design assistance
via Internet and electronic links to the customer's design station. Customer
service is supported with inventory maintained both by Altera and at
distributors' locations to provide short-term delivery of chips.

During each of the last three years, export sales constituted nearly half of the
Company's total sales. Through 1998, all export sales were denominated in U.S.
dollars. The Company's export sales are subject to those risks common to all
export activities, including governmental regulation, possible imposition of
tariffs or other trade barriers and currency fluctuations.

In the year ended December 31, 1998, worldwide sales through distributors
accounted for approximately 90% of total sales. In 1998, the two largest
distributors accounted for 30% and 21% of sales. In 1997, the two largest
distributors accounted for 32% and 18% of sales, whereas in 1996, they each
accounted for 29% and 15% of sales, respectively. No single end customer
accounted for more than 10% of the Company's sales in 1998, 1997 or 1996. Export
sales constituted 45%, 45% and 47% of sales in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

COMPETITION

The ASIC Segment:

According to Dataquest, the CMOS logic market consists of the following
segments: ASICs, standard logic, full custom devices and other forms of logic
ICs, including chipsets. The ASIC segment is comprised of programmable logic,
gate arrays and cell-based ICs (also referred to as standard cells). In a broad
sense, all of these devices are indirectly competitive as they generally may be
used in the same types of applications in electronic products. However,
differences in cost, performance, density, flexibility, ease of use and
time-to-market dictate the extent to which they may be directly competitive for
particular applications. As PLDs have increased in density and performance and
decreased in cost, they have become more directly competitive with other ASICs,
especially gate arrays. With the introduction of the Company's FLEX 10K family
and new APEX 20K family, which are Altera's 


                                       4
<PAGE>   6
highest density PLDs, along with its FLEX 6000 devices, which are designed and
priced to be very competitive with lower density gate arrays, the Company seeks
to grow by directly competing with other companies in the ASIC segment. Many of
the companies in the ASIC segment have substantially greater financial,
technical and marketing resources than the Company. Consequently, there can be
no assurance that the Company will be successful in competing in the ASIC
segment of the CMOS logic market.

The Programmable Logic Sub-Segment:

The principal factors of competition in the programmable logic sub-segment
include the capability of software development tools and system-level functional
programming blocks, product performance and features, quality and reliability,
pricing, technical service and support, the ability to respond rapidly to
technical innovation and customer service. The Company believes it competes
favorably with respect to these factors and that its proprietary device
architecture and its installed base of development systems with proprietary
software may provide some competitive advantage. However, as is true of the
semiconductor industry as a whole, the PLD sub-segment is intensely competitive
and is characterized by rapid technological change, rapid rates of product
obsolescence and price erosion resulting from both product obsolescence and
price competition. All of these factors may influence the Company's future
operating results.

The Company experiences significant direct competition from a number of other
companies which are in the programmable logic sub-segment. The Company's
competition in this market sub-segment is from suppliers of products that are
marketed as either field programmable gate arrays ("FPGAs") or complex PLDs
("CPLDs").

Companies that currently compete with Altera in its core business may have
proprietary wafer manufacturing ability, preferred vendor status with many of
the Company's customers, extensive marketing power and name recognition, greater
financial resources than those of the Company and other significant advantages
over the Company. Additionally, the semiconductor industry as a whole includes
many large domestic and foreign companies that have substantially greater
financial, technical and marketing resources than the Company. The Company
expects that as the dollar volume of the programmable logic sub-segment grows,
the attractiveness of this sub-segment to larger, more powerful competitors will
continue to increase. Substantial direct or indirect competition could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's future sales and operating results.

MANUFACTURING

The Company does not directly manufacture its silicon wafers. Altera's wafers
are produced using various semiconductor foundry wafer fabrication service
providers. This enables Altera to take advantage of these suppliers' high volume
economies of scale, as well as direct and more timely access to advancing
process technology.

Altera presently has its primary wafer supply arrangements with four
semiconductor vendors: Sharp, TSMC, WaferTech and Cypress. The Company may
negotiate additional foundry contracts and establish other sources of wafer
supply for its products as such arrangements become economically useful or
technically necessary. Although there are a number of new state of the art wafer
fabrication facilities currently under construction around the world,
semiconductor foundry capacity can become limited quickly and without much
notice. Furthermore, since only newer fabrication or substantially retrofitted
facilities are able to manufacture wafers that incorporate leading edge
technologies, any significant decrease in capacity of these facilities would
have a material adverse effect on the Company's ability to obtain wafer supply
for its newer products. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that any shortage
in foundry manufacturing capacity will not result in production problems for the
Company in the future.

In June 1996, Altera, TSMC and several other partners formed a joint venture
called WaferTech, LLC ("WaferTech") to build and operate a wafer manufacturing
plant in Camas, Washington. In return for a $140.4 million cash investment,
Altera received an 18% equity ownership in the joint-venture company and certain
rights and obligations to procure output from the fab at market prices. In
January 1999, Altera purchased from another joint venture partner, Analog
Devices, an additional 5% equity ownership interest in WaferTech for
approximately $37.5 million. This further investment in WaferTech provides
Altera with additional rights and obligations to future foundry output. In
addition, the Company has an obligation to guarantee a pro rata share of debt
incurred by WaferTech up to a maximum of $45 million. In May 1998, WaferTech
secured a loan facility of up to $350 million which was subsequently reduced to
$225 million in December 1998. WaferTech began its initial wafer production
shipments in 


                                       5
<PAGE>   7
October 1998. Based on WaferTech's production projections, the Company believes
that it will meet its minimum purchase obligations from WaferTech through at
least 1999. There can be no assurance that WaferTech will remain sufficiently
capitalized or on schedule with its production projections, and WaferTech's
failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future
operating results.

The Company also owns a 17% equity interest in Cypress Semiconductor (Texas)
Inc. ("CSTI"), a subsidiary of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation ("Cypress
Semiconductor"). Pursuant to the agreements governing this investment, Altera
can obtain up to a certain number of wafers from CSTI. This investment provides
Altera with the option to design and market certain sole-sourced products
produced at CSTI. The Company uses this facility for the manufacture of its
older architecture Classic, EPROM and MAX 5000 products. Cypress Semiconductor,
which has manufacturing and marketing rights to certain MAX 5000 products, also
manufactures its own products in the CSTI facility.

The Company depends upon its foundry vendors to produce wafers at acceptable
yields and to deliver them to the Company in a timely manner. The manufacture of
advanced CMOS semiconductor wafers is a highly complex process, and the Company
has from time to time experienced difficulties in obtaining acceptable yields
and timely deliveries from its suppliers. Good production yields are
particularly important to the Company's business, including its ability to meet
customers' demand for products and to maintain profit margins. Wafer production
yields are dependent on a wide variety of factors, including the level of
contaminants in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used
and the performance of personnel and equipment. As is common in the
semiconductor industry, the Company has experienced and expects to experience
production yield problems from time to time. Accordingly, no assurance can be
given that the Company will not experience significant production yield problems
with one or more of its product lines. Production throughput times also vary
considerably among the Company's wafer suppliers. The Company has experienced
delays from time to time in processing some of its products. Any prolonged
inability to obtain adequate yields or deliveries could adversely affect the
Company's operating results. The Company expects that, as is customary in the
semiconductor business, in order to maintain or enhance competitive position, it
will continue to convert its fabrication process arrangements to larger wafer
sizes and smaller circuit geometries, to more advanced process technologies or
to new suppliers. Such conversions entail inherent technological risks that can
adversely affect yields, costs and delivery lead time. In addition, if for any
reason the Company were required to seek alternative sources of supply,
shipments could be delayed significantly while such sources are qualified for
volume production, and any significant delay could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's operating results.

After wafer manufacturing is completed, each wafer is tested using a variety of
test and handling equipment. Such wafer testing is accomplished at TSMC,
WaferTech, Sharp and the Company's Pilot Line facility in San Jose (which is
used primarily for new product development). This testing is performed on
equipment owned by the Company and consigned to the vendors.

Resulting wafers are shipped to various Asian assembly suppliers, where good die
are separated into individual chips that are then encapsulated in ceramic or
plastic packages. As is the case with the Company's wafer supply business, the
Company employs a number of independent suppliers for assembly purposes. This
enables the Company to take advantage of subcontractor high volume
manufacturing, related cost savings, speed and supply flexibility. It also
provides the Company with timely access to cost-effective advanced process and
package technologies. Altera purchases almost of all its assembly services from
ASE (Malaysia) and ANAM (Korea).

Following assembly, each of the packaged units receives final testing, marking
and final inspection prior to shipment to customers. The Company obtains almost
all of its final test and back end operation services from ASE, ANAM or ASAT
(Hong Kong). Final testing by these assembly suppliers is accomplished through
the use of Altera's proprietary test software and hardware consigned to such
suppliers and of third-party commercial testers. These suppliers also handle
shipment of the products to the Company's customers.

Additionally, almost all of the manufacturing, assembly, testing and packaging
of Altera's development system hardware products is done by outside contractors.
Although the Company's wafer fabrication, assembly and other subcontractors have
not recently experienced any serious work stoppages, the economic, social and
political situations in countries where certain subcontractors are located are
unpredictable and can be volatile. Any prolonged work stoppages or other
inability of the Company to manufacture and assemble its products would have a
material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. Furthermore,
economic risks, such as extreme currency fluctuations, changes in tax laws,
tariff or freight rates or interruptions in air transportation, could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's operating results.


                                       6
<PAGE>   8

BACKLOG

The Company's backlog of released orders as of December 31, 1998 was
approximately $142.6 million as compared to approximately $114.0 million at
December 31, 1997. The Company's backlog consists of OEM customer-released
orders that are requested for delivery within the next six months and
distributor orders that are requested for delivery within the next three months.
The Company produces standard products which may be shipped from inventory
within a short time after receipt of an order. The Company's business has been
characterized by a high percentage of orders with near-term delivery schedules
(turns orders). At times, due to high demand and supply constraints in certain
products, lead times can lengthen, causing an increase in backlog. However,
orders constituting the Company's current backlog are cancelable without
significant penalty at the option of the purchaser, thereby decreasing backlog
during periods of lower demand. In addition, distributor shipments are subject
to price adjustments. As discussed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements under Item 8 herein, the Company adopted a new revenue recognition
method in the fourth quarter of 1997 with an effective date of January 1, 1997,
which involves the deferral of revenue recognition on shipments to distributors
until the product is resold to the end customers. Distributor orders accounted
for approximately 90% of the Company's backlog as of December 31, 1998. For all
of these reasons, backlog as of any particular date should not be used as a
predictor of sales for any future period.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's research and development activities have focused primarily on
general-purpose programmable logic devices and on the associated development
software and hardware. The Company has developed these related products in
parallel to provide software support to customers simultaneous with circuit
introduction. As a result of the Company's research and development efforts, it
has introduced a number of new PLD families, such as the FLEX 6000 (which was
introduced in 1997), FLEX 10KA, FLEX 10KE, MAX 7000A and MAX 7000S families. The
Company has also redesigned a number of its products to accommodate their
manufacture on new wafer fabrication processes. Additionally, the Company
releases new versions of its proprietary software on a quarterly basis.

The Company's research and development expenditures in 1998, 1997 and 1996 were
$59.9 million, $54.4 million and $49.5 million, respectively. The Company has
not capitalized research and development or software costs to date. The Company
intends to continue to spend substantial amounts on research and development in
order to continue to develop new products and achieve market acceptance for such
products, particularly in light of the industry pattern of short product life
cycles and increasing competition within the CMOS logic market. Even if such
goals are accomplished, there can be no assurance that these products will
achieve significant market acceptance. If the Company were unable to
successfully define, develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance
its existing products, its future operating results would be adversely affected.

PATENTS AND LICENSES

The Company owns numerous United States patents and has additional pending
United States patent applications on its semiconductor products. The Company
also has technology licensing agreements with AMD, Cypress, Intel and Texas
Instruments giving the Company royalty-free rights to design, manufacture and
package products using certain patents they control.

Although the Company's patents and patent applications may have value in
discouraging competitive entry into the Company's market segment and the Company
believes that its current licenses will assist it in developing additional
products, there can be no assurance that any valuable new patents will be
granted to the Company, that the Company's patents will provide meaningful
protection from competition or that any additional products will be developed
based on any of the licenses that the Company currently holds. The Company
believes that its future success will depend primarily upon the technical
competence and creative skills of its personnel, rather than on its patents,
licenses or other proprietary rights.

In the future, the Company may decide to incur litigation expenses to enforce
its intellectual property rights against third parties. There is no assurance
that any such litigation would be successful or that the Company's patents
would be upheld if challenged.


                                       7
<PAGE>   9
The Company, in the normal course of business, from time to time receives and
makes inquiries with respect to possible patent infringements. As a result of
inquiries received from third parties, it may be necessary or desirable for the
Company to obtain additional licenses relating to one or more of its current or
future products. There can be no assurance that such additional licenses could
be obtained, and, if obtainable, could be obtained on conditions which would not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's operating results. In addition,
if patent litigation ensued, there can be no assurance that these third parties
would not succeed in obtaining significant monetary damages or an injunction
against the manufacture and sale of one or more of the Company's product
families.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1998, the Company had 1,151 regular employees. The success of
the Company is dependent in large part upon the continued service of its key
management, technical, sales and support employees and on its ability to
continue to attract and retain additional qualified employees. The competition
for such employees is intense and their loss as employees could have an adverse
effect on the Company.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

The Company's headquarters facility is located in San Jose, California on
approximately 25 acres of land, which the Company purchased in June 1995. The
campus for the headquarters facility consists of four interconnected buildings
totaling approximately 500,000 square feet. Design, limited manufacturing,
research, marketing and administrative activities are performed in these
facilities. In 1998, the Company opened its 62,000 square foot design and test
engineering facility in Penang, Malaysia, which is situated on land leased from
the Penang Development Corporation. The Company also leases on a short-term
basis office facilities for its domestic and international sales management
offices. The Company believes that its existing facilities are adequate for its
current needs.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

In June 1993, Xilinx, Inc. ("Xilinx") brought suit against the Company seeking
monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged
infringement of certain patents held by Xilinx. In June 1993, the Company
brought suit against Xilinx, seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief
based on Xilinx's alleged infringement of certain patents held by the Company.
In April 1995, the Company filed a separate lawsuit against Xilinx in Delaware,
Xilinx's state of incorporation, seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief
based on Xilinx's alleged infringement of one of the Company's patents. In May
1995, Xilinx counterclaimed against the Company in Delaware, asserting defenses
and seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's
alleged infringement of certain patents held by Xilinx. Subsequently, the
Delaware case has been transferred to California. In October 1998, both parties
filed motions for summary judgment with respect to certain issues in the first
two cases regarding infringement or non-infringement and validity or invalidity
of the patents at issue in the respective cases. In the event that the court
were to rule against the Company in certain of these motions, the Company could
be adversely impacted by the potential monetary damages or injunctive relief
that could ultimately be awarded to Xilinx. Due to the nature of the litigation
with Xilinx and because the lawsuits are still in the pre-trial stage, the
Company's management cannot estimate the total expense, the possible loss, if
any, or the range of loss that may ultimately be incurred in connection with the
allegations. Management cannot ensure that Xilinx will not succeed in obtaining
significant monetary damages or an injunction against the manufacture and sale
of the Company's MAX 5000, MAX 7000, FLEX 8000 or MAX 9000 families of products,
or succeed in invalidating any of the Company's patents. Although no assurances
can be given as to the results of these cases, based on the present status,
management does not believe that any of such results will have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In August 1994, Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD") brought suit against the
Company seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's
alleged infringement of certain patents held by AMD. In September 1994, Altera
answered the complaint asserting that it is licensed to use the patents which
AMD claims are infringed and filed a counterclaim against AMD alleging
infringement of certain patents held by the Company. In October 1997, upon
completion of trials bifurcated from the infringement claims, the Court ruled
that the Company is licensed under all patents asserted by AMD in the suit. In
December 1997, AMD filed a Notice of Appeal of the Court's rulings. Due to the
nature of the litigation with AMD, and because AMD has appealed the court
rulings that the Company is licensed under all of the patents asserted by AMD in
the suit, the Company's management cannot estimate the total expense, the
possible loss, if any, or the range of loss that may ultimately be 


                                       8
<PAGE>   10
incurred in connection with the allegations. Management cannot ensure that AMD
will not succeed in obtaining significant monetary damages or an injunction
against the manufacture and sale of the Classic, MAX 5000, MAX 7000, FLEX 8000,
MAX 9000, FLEX 10K and FLASHlogic product families, or succeed in invalidating
any of the Company's patents remaining in the suit. Although no assurances can
be given as to the results of this case, based on its present status, management
does not believe that any of such results will have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial condition or results of operations.


                                       9

<PAGE>   11
                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

The textual portion of the section entitled "About Your Investment" and the
section entitled "Corporate Directory" in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998 ("1998 Annual Report") are
incorporated herein by reference.

The Company believes factors such as quarter-to-quarter variances in financial
results, announcements of new products, new orders and order rate variations by
the Company or its competitors could cause the market price of its Common Stock
to fluctuate substantially. In addition, the stock prices for many high
technology companies experience large fluctuations, which are often unrelated to
the operating performance of the specific companies. Broad market fluctuations,
as well as general economic conditions such as a recessionary period or high
interest rates, may adversely affect the market price of the Company's Common
Stock.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

The section entitled "Selected Consolidated Financial Data" in the Company's
1998 Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Altera designs, manufactures and markets high-performance, high-density,
programmable logic devices and associated computer aided engineering logic
development tools. FLEX and APEX products are the Company's SRAM-based line of
embedded array programmable logic devices, and MAX products are the Company's
line of EEPROM and EPROM based macrocell programmable logic devices.

Beginning in 1998 the composition of the Company's product categories was
changed and prior years' data reported here have been restated to reflect those
changes. New products now consist of the Company's 3.3-volt (or lower) families,
are manufactured on a 0.35-micron (or finer) geometry and are made up of the
FLEX 10KA/10KE, FLEX 6000/6000A, MAX 7000A/7000B and APEX families. Mainstream
products now include the MAX 7000S, MAX 9000 and FLEX 10K families. Mature
products now consist of the Classic, MAX 5000, MAX 7000 and FLEX 8000 families.
Other products include Tools, FLASHlogic, configuration devices, MPLDs and FSPs.

SALES | 1998 sales of $654.3 million grew 3.7% over 1997 sales of $631.1 million
and 31.6% over 1996 sales of $497.3 million. The slowdown in 1998 sales growth
was largely due to a decline in the overall semiconductor and programmable logic
markets.

Product Transition

The Company's New and Mainstream products have been developed and introduced to
the marketplace over the last several years. These products have similar or
improved features and comparable or higher densities than their predecessors,
but advanced process technology enables the Company to produce these products at
a lower cost than previous generations of products. Consistent with their lower
cost structure, the Company has priced these products at a significant discount
to the Company's Mature products in order to stimulate demand and broaden the
appeal of programmable logic. In the short term, the reduced pricing on New and
Mainstream products has dampened revenue growth and the Company's management
expects that in the near term this effect will continue as customers shift
demand to its newer, lower-priced offerings from the Mature products, which in
1998 comprised 44.9% of sales. Management of the Company believes that lower
prices on its newer product families will enable its product offering to compete
more favorably with gate array and standard cell technologies, which represent
significant market opportunities. The Company believes that over time,
additional unit sales will more than offset the lower selling prices, but there
can be no assurances that this will occur.


                                       10
<PAGE>   12
New product sales in 1998 were more than ten times the sales in 1997 and reached
12.1% of total sales in 1998 as compared to 1.2% of total sales in 1997.
Additionally, sales of Mainstream products almost doubled year over year to
reach 34.0% of sales in 1998 against 18.4% of sales in 1997. New and Mainstream
products together comprised 46.1% of 1998 sales compared to 19.7% of sales in
1997. In contrast to this, the Company's Mature and Other products, which
combined represented 53.9% of sales in 1998 were 80.3% of 1997 sales.


Sales Growth By Product Category:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Year Ended December 31,
                                                        1998        1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>              <C>
New                                                   924.8%          nm
Mainstream                                             91.1%      258.3%
Mature                                                -34.3%        9.4%
Other                                                  -1.1%        6.7%
Total                                                   3.7%       26.9%
</TABLE>

Customer Sectors

Accompanying this product transition was a sustained shift in customer mix
towards the Communications market driven primarily by growth in the networking
and telecommunications sectors. Communications represented 64.0% of the
Company's business in 1998 as compared to 56.0% of the total in 1997. The
broad-based Industrial market was 12.2% of total sales in 1998 and 12.3% in 1997
growing 3.2% year to year. The Electronic Data Processing, Consumer and Other
markets comprised 17.4%, 2.8% and 3.5%, respectively and all declined as a
percent of total sales in 1998.

Geographic Areas

North American sales increased 2.7% from 1997 and represented 54.9% of total
sales in 1998. Europe grew 14.2%, accounting for 22.8% of sales in 1998. Sales
to Japan were up 1.2% from 1997 and represented 18.1% of the Company's 1998
sales; end customer purchases from distributors, measured in yen, increased
12.5%. Asia Pacific sales declined 18.2% and were just 4.2% of 1998 sales, owing
to significant turmoil in several of the economies comprising that region. In
spite of a significant decline in Asia Pacific and overall weakness in the
Japanese economy, sales to International grew 4.9% primarily due to strength in
the European and Japanese Telecommunications and Networking sectors. In 1998
International sales were 45.1% of total Company sales.

In 1997, North America sales grew 31.6% and were 55.4% of total sales. Europe
sales grew 22.7% in 1997 and represented 20.7% of total sales. Japan experienced
a 23.4% 1997 growth in sales and accounted for 18.5% of sales. Asia Pacific
sales grew 11.8% in 1997 and were 5.4% of total Company sales.

Sales Growth By Geographic Area:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Year Ended December 31,
                                                            1998         1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>              <C>   
North America                                               2.7%        31.6%
Europe                                                     14.2%        22.7%
Japan                                                       1.2%        23.4%
Asia Pacific                                              -18.2%        11.8%
    Total International                                     4.9%        21.5%
Total                                                       3.7%        26.9%
</TABLE>


                                       11
<PAGE>   13
Major items in the statements of operations, expressed as a percentage of sales,
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        Year Ended December 31,
                                                                     1998        1997        1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>         <C>         <C>  
Cost of sales                                                       38.1%       37.5%       38.6%
Gross margin                                                        61.9%       62.5%       61.4%
Research and development expenses                                    9.1%        8.6%       10.0%
Selling, general and administrative expenses                        17.3%       17.9%       17.6%
Income from operations                                              35.5%       36.0%       33.8%
Interest expense                                                     1.0%        1.9%        2.5%
Interest and other income, net                                       2.9%        2.3%        2.7%
Provision for income taxes                                          12.1%       12.4%       12.1%
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                     -        2.9%           -
Net income                                                          23.6%       21.1%       21.9%
</TABLE>


GROSS MARGIN | Gross margin as a percentage of sales was 61.9% in 1998, 62.5% in
1997 and 61.4% in 1996. Cost reductions, as a result of manufacturing process
improvements, have been offset by reduced pricing.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSES | Research and development expenses as a
percentage of sales were 9.1% in 1998, 8.6% in 1997 and 10.0% in 1996. 1998
absolute R&D spending increased by $5.5 million over 1997. 1998 spending
increases relate to the development of new products including FLEX 10KE, MAX
7000A and APEX, as well as development of the Company's Quartus software. The
relatively higher expenses in 1996 were due to prototype and pre-production
expenses associated with the MAX 7000S, MAX 9000, and FLEX 10K product families.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES | Selling, general and
administrative expenses increased slightly to $113.2 million in 1998 from $112.8
million in 1997 and decreased slightly as a percentage of sales, falling to
17.3% in 1998 from 17.9% in 1997. The slight increase in terms of dollars spent
from 1997 to 1998 was mainly driven by increased personnel expenses for
marketing and administration and higher depreciation expenses associated with
capital spending required to support the Company's information systems,
partially offset by lower legal expenses. Selling, general and administrative
expenses increased 28.5% to $112.8 million in 1997 from $87.7 million in 1996
and increased slightly as a percentage of sales, rising to 17.9% in 1997 from
17.6% in 1996. The increase was mainly driven by higher marketing and
administrative headcount, higher commissions on increased sales volumes, new and
expanded international offices and expenses associated with the replacement of
the Company's main business information systems.

Selling, general and administrative expenses include salary expenses related to
field sales, marketing and administrative personnel, commissions and incentive
expenses, advertising and promotional expenditures, and legal expenses. The
direct sales force and field application engineers, who work in over twenty
field sales offices worldwide, stimulate demand by assisting the customers in
the use and proper selection of the Company's products. The customers then work
with the Company's distributors for order fulfillment and logistical
requirements, as over 90% of the Company's sales are made through distributors.
The Company intends to continue to increase sales resources in markets and
regions where it anticipates this will increase sales, enhance competitive
position, or improve customer service.

INCOME FROM OPERATIONS | Income from operations was $231.8 million in 1998,
$227.0 million in 1997 and $168.1 million in 1996. As a percentage of sales,
income from operations was 35.5%, 36.0% and 33.8% in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Income from operations decreased as a percentage of sales from
1997 to 1998 primarily due to a slight decrease in gross margin. The increase in
income from operations as a percentage of sales from 1996 to 1997 was primarily
due to improvements in gross margin and to a lesser degree reduced operating
expenses (selling, general and administrative plus research and development) as
a percentage of sales.

INTEREST EXPENSE | Interest expense decreased to $6.4 million in 1998 from $11.7
million in 1997 and $12.3 million in 1996. Interest expense relates to the
convertible subordinated notes issued in June 1995 and includes interest expense
and amortization of debt issuance costs, net of capitalized interest related to
the construction of the new headquarters. The decrease in interest expense from
1997 to 1998 is primarily attributable to the conversion of the Company's
subordinated notes into common stock in June 1998.


                                       12
<PAGE>   14
INTEREST AND OTHER INCOME, NET | Interest and other income increased to $18.7
million in 1998 from $14.3 million in 1997 and $13.3 million in 1996. The
increase over the three-year period resulted from increased cash balances
available for investment throughout the year.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES | Altera's effective tax rate was 32.5% in 1998
compared to 34.0% in 1997 and 35.5% in 1996. The reduction from 1997 to 1998 was
due in part to an increased amount of earned interest income from tax-exempt
investments and a change in the geographic mix of income. The reduction in the
rate from 1996 to 1997 was primarily due to an increase in research and
development tax credits.

EQUITY INVESTMENT | In June 1996, the Company, TSMC and several other partners
formed WaferTech, LLC ("WaferTech"), a joint-venture company, to build and
operate a wafer manufacturing plant in Camas, Washington. In return for a $140.4
million cash investment, the Company received an 18% equity ownership in the
joint-venture company and certain rights and obligations to procure up to 27% of
the factory's output at market prices. In January 1999, the Company purchased
from Analog Devices, Inc. an additional 5% equity ownership interest in
WaferTech for approximately $37.5 million, increasing its ownership interest to
23%. The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method based on
the Company's ability to exercise significant influence on the operating and
financial policies of WaferTech. The Company's equity in the net loss of
WaferTech was $10.4 million for 1998 and was not material for 1997 and 1996. In
October production began at the WaferTech joint venture. WaferTech is currently
in the initial stages of production volumes.

ACCOUNTING CHANGE | In October 1997, the Company changed its accounting method
for recognizing revenue on sales to distributors with an effective date of
January 1, 1997. The Company previously recognized revenue upon shipment to
distributors net of appropriate reserves for sales returns and allowances.
Following the accounting change, revenue recognition on shipments to
distributors is deferred until the products are resold to end customers. The
Company believes that deferral of revenue on distributor sales and related gross
margins until the product is shipped by the distributors results in a more
meaningful measurement of results of operations and is more consistent with
industry practice and, therefore, is a preferable method of accounting.

The cumulative effect prior to 1997 of the change in accounting method was a
charge of $18.1 million (net of $9.3 million of income taxes) or $0.18 per
diluted share in 1997.

FUTURE RESULTS | Future operating results will depend on the Company's ability
to develop, manufacture and sell complex semiconductor components and
programming software that offer customers greater value than solutions offered
by competing vendors. The Company's efforts in this regard may not be
successful. The Company plans to sustain future growth by offering programmable
chips for applications that are presently served by other ASIC vendors. These
vendors have well-established market positions and a solution that has been
proven technically feasible and economically competitive over several decades.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in displacing ASIC
vendors in the targeted applications and densities. Furthermore, other
programmable logic vendors are targeting these applications and may be
successful in securing market share to the exclusion of the Company. Moreover,
standard cell technologies are increasingly used by the Company's customers to
achieve greater integration in their systems; this may not only impede the
Company's efforts to penetrate the ASIC market but may also displace the
Company's products in the applications that it presently serves. The Company's
future growth will depend on its ability to continue to expand the programmable
logic market.

The Company is highly dependent upon subcontractors to manufacture silicon
wafers and perform assembly, test and shipment to end customers. The Company is
also dependent on its wafer foundry partners to improve process technologies in
a timely manner to enhance the Company's product designs and cost structure.
Their inability to do so could have a severe negative impact on the Company. The
vast majority of the Company's products are manufactured and shipped to
customers by subcontractors located in Asia, principally Japan, Taiwan, Korea,
Hong Kong and Malaysia. Several of these countries are experiencing significant
economic disruptions including volatile exchange rates, rising unemployment,
insolvencies and government fiscal austerity programs. Disruptions or adverse
supply conditions arising from market conditions, political strife, labor
disruptions and other factors could have adverse consequences on the Company's
future results. Natural or man-made disasters, normal process fluctuations and
variances in manufacturing yields could have severe negative impact on the
Company's operating capabilities. The Company has sought to diversify its
operating risk by participating in the WaferTech joint venture to manufacture
silicon wafers with other partners in Camas, Washington. In October 1998
production began at the WaferTech joint venture. WaferTech


                                       13
<PAGE>   15
is currently in the initial stages of production volumes and has yet to make a
profit. Although the Company expects future WaferTech production volumes and
profitability to increase, there is currently an oversupply of semiconductor
fabrication capacity. There can be no assurances that the worldwide supply and
demand for semiconductor wafers will be such that WaferTech will make a profit
and that WaferTech will not continue to have an adverse impact on the Company's
operating results.

Also, a number of factors outside of the Company's control, including general
economic conditions and cycles in world markets, exchange rate fluctuations or a
lack of growth in the Company's end markets could adversely impact future
results. An important component of the Company's growth, the networking
equipment market, has been growing at a slower rate in recent years. Should this
trend continue, the Company's growth in future years may be limited.

Because of the foregoing and other factors that might affect the Company's
operating results, past financial performance should not be considered an
indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends
to anticipate future results. In addition, the cyclical nature of the
semiconductor industry and other factors have resulted in a highly volatile
price of the Company's common stock.


NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS | In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133
establishes standards for accounting and reporting on derivative instruments for
periods beginning after June 15, 1999 and early adoption is permitted. SFAS No.
133 requires that all derivative instruments be recognized in the balance sheet
as either assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. Furthermore, SFAS
No. 133 requires current recognition in earnings of changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments depending on the intended use of the derivative and the
resulting designation. The Company expects that its adoption of SFAS No. 133, 
which will become effective in fiscal year 2000, will not have a material 
effect on the Company's financial statements.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

OPERATING ACTIVITIES | During 1998, the Company's operating activities generated
net cash of $270.1 million which was primarily attributable to net income of
$154.4 million adjusted by non-cash items including depreciation and
amortization of $30.0 million, equity in loss of WaferTech of $10.4 million, a
decrease in inventories and other assets of $42.5 million, and an increase in
deferred income on sales to distributors and income taxes payable of $47.3
million. These items were offset by an increase in deferred income taxes of $6.6
million and a decrease in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $7.1
million.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES | During 1998, the net cash used by the Company in its
investing activities was $116.7 million. The Company invested $24.0 million for
manufacturing and data processing equipment and software and the construction of
the Malaysian design and manufacturing center. Additionally, the Company
purchased $93.3 million (net) of short-term investments.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES | During 1998, the net cash used by the Company in its
financing activities was $45.1 million. The Company repurchased 1.8 million
shares of its common stock for $60.4 million, partially offset by net proceeds
of $15.2 million from the issuance of 1.3 million shares of common stock to
employees through various option and employee stock purchase plans.

FINANCIAL CONDITION | The Company has historically financed its operations
primarily through cash generated from operations.

As of December 31, 1998, the Company had $579.1 million of cash, cash
equivalents and short-term investments available to finance future growth.
Management believes that capital expenditures in 1999 will approximate the
expenditures in 1998. The Company believes the available sources of funds and
cash expected to be generated from operations will be adequate to finance
current operations and capital expenditures through at least 1999.

YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE | Most computer programs were designed to perform data
computations on the last two digits of the numerical value of a year. When a
computation referencing the year 2000 is performed, these systems may interpret
"00" as the year 1900 and could either stop processing date-related computations
or could process them incorrectly. Computations referencing the year 2000 might
be invoked at any time, but are likely to begin occurring in the year 1999.


                                       14
<PAGE>   16
Pursuant to its year 2000 ("Y2K") compliance program, the Company has undertaken
various initiatives intended to ensure that its computer equipment and software
will function properly with respect to dates in the year 2000 and thereafter. As
used herein, the term "computer equipment and software" includes systems that
are commonly considered information technology ("IT") systems (e.g., accounting,
data processing and telephone systems) as well as those that are not commonly
considered IT systems (e.g., manufacturing equipment, building and facility
operations systems). In addition, the Company has also reviewed the software
products it sells, and has upgraded and will upgrade such products to offer full
Y2K compliance. Based upon its identification and assessment efforts to date,
the Company anticipates that by the end of June 1999, all computer equipment and
software that are material to Altera's internal business operations and all
software products that Altera sells will be fully compliant with Y2K standards,
specifically DISC PD-2000-1 as published by the British Standards Institute. The
Company has not incurred and does not anticipate that it will incur material
expenditures for the remediation of any Y2K issues.

The Company could be adversely impacted by Y2K issues faced by major
distributors, suppliers, customers, vendors and financial service organizations
("Third Parties") with which the Company interacts. The most reasonably likely
worst case scenario for the Company with respect to the Y2K problem is the
failure of a major distributor or supplier to be Y2K compliant such that the
distribution of Altera products or the supply of components for such products is
interrupted temporarily. This could result in the Company not being able to
produce or distribute product for a period of time, which in turn could result
in lost sales and profits. Based solely on responses received from these Third
Parties, the Company has no reason to believe that there will be any material
adverse impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations
relating to any Y2K issues of such Third Parties. However, if the responses
received from these third parties are not accurate or happen to change, then
there could be an unforeseen material adverse impact on the Company's financial
condition and results of operations. Management will continue to determine the
impact, if any, that Third Parties who are not Y2K compliant may have on the
financial condition or results of operations of the Company.

The Company has charged its business resumption planning committee to evaluate
Y2K business disruption scenarios, coordinate the establishment of Y2K
contingency plans, and identify and implement preemptive strategies. Contingency
plans for critical business processes will be developed by the end of June 1999.

EMPLOYEES | In 1998, the number of employees increased 6.0% to 1,151 at year
end. In 1997, there were 1,086 employees at year end.

IMPACT OF CURRENCY AND INFLATION | The Company purchases the majority of its
materials and services in U.S. dollars, and its foreign sales are transacted in
U.S. dollars. However, Altera does have Japanese yen denominated purchase
contracts with Sharp Corporation of Japan for processed silicon wafers. In
recent years, the Company did not hold or purchase any foreign exchange
contracts for the purchase or sale of Japanese yen. During the first half of
1998, the Company entered into a forward exchange contract to purchase Malaysian
ringgit to meet a portion of its firm contractual commitments for the
construction of its Malaysian design and manufacturing center. At the end of
1998 the Company had no open forward contracts. The Company may choose to enter
into similar contracts from time to time should conditions appear favorable.
Effects of inflation on Altera's financial results have not been significant.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company's investment portfolio consisted
of fixed income securities of $539.8 million and $360.3 million, respectively.
These securities, like all fixed income instruments, are subject to interest
rate risk and will decline in value if market interest rates increase. If market
interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as
of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the decline in the fair value of the portfolio
would not be material. Additionally, the Company has the ability to hold its
fixed income investments until maturity and, therefore, the Company would not
expect to recognize such an adverse impact in income or cash flows.

The Company has international subsidiary operations and Japanese yen denominated
wafer purchase contracts with Sharp Corporation of Japan and is, therefore,
subject to foreign currency rate exposure. To date, the exposure to the Company
related to exchange rate volatility has not been significant. If the foreign
currency rates fluctuate by 10% from rates at December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
effect on the Company's financial position and results of operations would not
be material. However, there can be no assurance that there will not be a
material impact in the future.


                                       15

<PAGE>   17
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                              Page
<S>                                                                                                           <C>
         Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and 1997                                              17

         Consolidated  Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and                 18
             1996

         Consolidated  Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and                 19
             1996

         Consolidated  Statements  of  Stockholders'  Equity for the years ended  December  31,                 20
             1998, 1997 and 1996

         Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements                                                         21

         Report of Independent Accountants                                                                      32

         Financial Statement Schedules
             All schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable,
             not required, or the information required is included in the
             financial statements or notes thereto.

         Supplementary Financial Data                                                                           33
</TABLE>


                                       16
<PAGE>   18
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  December 31,
(In thousands, except par value amount)                                         1998                1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                    <C>                 <C>          
ASSETS

Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents                                              $     131,029       $      22,761
Short-term investments                                                       448,077             354,808
                                                                       ---------------------------------
     Total cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments                579,106             377,569
Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts
     of $8,007 and $3,008, respectively                                       56,138              55,251
Inventories                                                                   69,869              98,883
Deferred income taxes                                                         69,644              63,076
Other current assets                                                          24,776              21,423
                                                                       ---------------------------------
     Total current assets                                                    799,533             616,202
Property and equipment, net                                                  152,320             152,417
Investments and other assets                                                 141,478             183,899
                                                                       ---------------------------------
                                                                       $   1,093,331       $     952,518
                                                                       =================================

Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity

Current liabilities:
Accounts payable                                                       $      14,479       $      20,649
Accrued liabilities                                                           16,615              16,688
Accrued compensation                                                          19,356              20,226
Deferred income on sales to distributors                                     161,160             128,268
                                                                       ---------------------------------
    Total current liabilities                                                211,610             185,831
Convertible subordinated notes                                                    --             230,000
                                                                       ---------------------------------
    Total liabilities                                                        211,610             415,831
                                                                       ---------------------------------
Commitments and contingencies (See Notes 5, 7 and 12)                             --                  --
Stockholders' equity:
Common stock;
     $.001 par value; 400,000 shares authorized; 97,635
     and 89,185 shares issued and outstanding, respectively                       98                  89
Capital in excess of par value                                               314,182             123,544
Retained earnings                                                            567,441             413,054
                                                                       ---------------------------------
    Total stockholders' equity                                               881,721             536,687
                                                                       ---------------------------------
                                                                       $   1,093,331       $     952,518
                                                                       =================================
</TABLE>


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       17
<PAGE>   19
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands, except per share amounts)                                     1998                1997                1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>                 <C>                 <C>         
Sales                                                                $    654,342        $    631,114        $    497,306
Cost of sales                                                             249,474             236,958             191,958
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                                                              404,868             394,156             305,348
Research and development expenses                                          59,864              54,417              49,513
Selling, general and administrative expenses                              113,161             112,784              87,742
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
Income from operations                                                    231,843             226,955             168,093
Interest expense                                                           (6,362)            (11,701)            (12,284)
Interest and other income, net                                             18,702              14,317              13,328
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes, equity investment and
    cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                   244,183             229,571             169,137
Provision for income taxes                                                 79,356              78,054              60,002
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
Income before equity investment and cumulative effect of
    change in accounting principle                                        164,827             151,517             109,135
Equity in loss of WaferTech, LLC                                           10,440                  --                  --
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting
    principle                                                             154,387             151,517             109,135
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                            --              18,064                  --
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                           $    154,387        $    133,453        $    109,135
                                                                     ====================================================

Per share:
    Basic
        Income before cumulative effect of change
           in accounting principle                                   $       1.65        $       1.71        $       1.25
        Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                    --               (0.20)                 --
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
        Net income                                                   $       1.65        $       1.51        $       1.25
                                                                     ====================================================
    Diluted
        Income before cumulative effect of change
           in accounting principle                                   $       1.56        $       1.55        $       1.16
        Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                    --               (0.18)                 --
                                                                     ----------------------------------------------------
        Net income                                                   $       1.56        $       1.37        $       1.16
                                                                     ====================================================
Shares used in computing per share amounts:
    Basic                                                                  93,493              88,525              87,406
    Diluted                                                               101,589             102,616             100,813
</TABLE>


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       18
<PAGE>   20
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands)                                                                    1998                1997                1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                       <C>                 <C>                 <C>         
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:

Net income                                                                $    154,387        $    133,453        $    109,135
Adjustments  to  reconcile  net income to net cash  provided  by
    operating activities:
       Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                          --              18,064                  --
       Equity in loss of WaferTech, LLC                                         10,440                  --                  --
       Depreciation and amortization                                            30,038              27,105              20,884
       Deferred income taxes                                                    (6,568)             (8,368)             (8,063)
       Changes in assets and liabilities:
            Accounts receivable, net                                              (887)             13,235             (13,968)
            Inventories                                                         29,014             (23,085)            (20,377)
            Other assets                                                        13,446               4,548               3,059
            Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                            (7,113)              9,282              (7,220)
            Deferred income on sales to distributors                            32,892              32,555              13,849
            Income taxes payable                                                14,420              14,861               5,435
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------
Cash provided by operating activities                                          270,069             221,650             102,734
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------


Cash Flows from Investing Activities:

Capital expenditures                                                           (23,950)            (80,879)            (45,172)
Other long-term investments                                                        552             (56,997)            (86,240)
Net change in short-term investments                                           (93,269)           (144,746)             75,748
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------
Cash used for investing activities                                            (116,667)           (282,622)            (55,664)
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------

Cash Flows from Financing Activities:

Net proceeds from issuance of common stock                                      15,214              12,945               5,760
Repurchase of common stock                                                     (60,348)                 --              (4,331)
Payment of notes payable                                                            --                  --             (57,120)
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------
Cash provided by (used for) financing activities                               (45,134)             12,945             (55,691)
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                           108,268             (48,027)             (8,621)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                                  22,761              70,788              79,409
                                                                          ----------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                  $    131,029        $     22,761        $     70,788
                                                                          ====================================================

Cash paid during the year for:
    Income taxes                                                          $     73,526        $     77,853        $     62,347
    Interest                                                                     6,568              13,225              13,225
Supplemental disclosure of non-cash activities:
    Conversion of subordinated debt into common stock                          226,787                  --                  --
    Cancellation of notes payable related to wafer capacity                         --                  --              63,400
    Remaining obligations related to WaferTech, LLC                                 --                  --              56,160
</TABLE>


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       19
<PAGE>   21
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    Common Stock   
                                                                   Number of         and Capital        
                                                                      Common        In Excess of            Retained
(In thousands)                                                        Shares           Par Value            Earnings
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                             <C>                 <C>                 <C>         
Balance, December 31, 1995                                            87,117        $     83,445        $    171,744
Tax benefit resulting from employee stock transactions                                     4,492
Issuance of common stock                                                 787               5,760
Repurchase of common stock                                              (300)             (3,053)             (1,278)
Net income                                                                                                   109,135
                                                                ----------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1996                                            87,604              90,644             279,601
Tax benefit resulting from employee stock transactions                                    20,044
Issuance of common stock                                               1,581              12,945
Net income                                                                                                   133,453
                                                                ----------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1997                                            89,185             123,633             413,054
Tax benefit resulting from employee stock transactions                                     8,969
Issuance of common stock                                               1,271              15,239
Repurchase of common stock                                            (1,810)            (60,348)
Conversion of subordinated debt into common stock                      8,989             226,787
Net income                                                                                                   154,387
                                                                ----------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1998                                            97,635        $    314,280        $    567,441
                                                                ====================================================
</TABLE>


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       20
<PAGE>   22
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


Note 1: The Company

Altera Corporation (the "Company"), founded in 1983, is in the business of
designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing CMOS programmable logic
integrated circuits and associated engineering development software and
hardware. The Company's major markets are communications, electronic data
processing and industrial applications.

On June 19, 1997, the Company was reincorporated in the State of Delaware. In
connection with the reincorporation, as approved by the stockholders, the number
of authorized shares of the Company's common stock was increased to four hundred
million (400,000,000) and each share of common stock was assigned a par value of
$.001. The accompanying financial statements have been restated to give effect
to the re-incorporation.


Note 2: Significant Accounting Policies

BASIS OF PRESENTATION | The Company has a fiscal year that ends on the Friday
nearest December 31st. For presentation purposes, the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes refer to the Company's fiscal year end as
December 31st. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries after elimination of all significant
intercompany balances and transactions.

USE OF ESTIMATES | The Company's management has made certain estimates and
assumptions concerning the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the fiscal
years presented to prepare its financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

RECLASSIFICATIONS | Certain reclassifications have been made to the prior year
consolidated financial statements to conform to the current year's presentation.
Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported results of
operations or retained earnings.

CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS | Cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Short-term
investments are held as securities available for sale and are carried at their
market value as of the balance sheet date which approximated cost. The amortized
cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion
of discounts to maturity. Such amortization is included in investment income.
Realized gains or losses are determined on the specific identification method
and are reflected in income. Net unrealized gains or losses are recorded
directly in stockholders' equity except those unrealized losses that are deemed
to be other than temporary are reflected in income.

INVENTORIES | Inventories are recorded at the lower of standard cost, which
approximates actual cost on a first-in-first-out basis, or market. The
inventories at December 31, 1998 and 1997 were comprised of the following:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   December 31,
(In thousands)                                     1998             1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>              <C>         
Purchased parts and raw materials          $         65     $      1,503
Work in process                                  46,207           67,442
Finished goods                                   23,597           29,938
                                           -----------------------------
    Total inventories                      $     69,869     $     98,883
                                           =============================
</TABLE>


                                       21
<PAGE>   23
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT | Property and equipment are carried at cost less
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are
computed using the straight-line method. Estimated useful lives of two to five
years are used for equipment and office furniture and forty years for buildings.
Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the shorter of the
remaining facility lease term or the estimated useful life of the improvements.
As of December 31, 1997, the costs of the Company's new headquarters building
included $4.0 million of capitalized interest incurred during the construction
and development period. Property and equipment at December 31, 1998 and 1997 was
comprised of the following components:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            December 31,
(In thousands)                                             1998                1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                <C>                 <C>         
Land                                               $     20,496        $     20,496
Building                                                 80,338              75,111
Equipment and software                                  115,332             102,953
Office furniture and fixtures                            10,287               9,767
Leasehold improvements                                    1,183               1,884
                                                   --------------------------------
    Property and equipment, at cost                     227,636             210,211
Accumulated depreciation and amortization               (75,316)            (57,794)
                                                   --------------------------------
    Property and equipment, net                    $    152,320        $    152,417
                                                   ================================
</TABLE>

The Company evaluates the recoverability of its property and equipment and
intangible assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of." This standard requires recognition of
impairment of long-lived assets in the event the net book value of such assets
exceeds the future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS | For certain of the Company's financial
instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments,
accounts receivable, notes payable and accounts payable, the carrying amounts
approximate fair value due to their short maturities. At December 31, 1997, the
estimated fair value for the convertible notes (with a carrying amount of $230.0
million) was approximately $314.0 million. The fair value for the convertible
subordinated notes was primarily based on quoted market prices.
The subordinated notes were converted into common stock in June 1998.

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK | Financial instruments that potentially subject
the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and
cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable. The Company
places its short-term investments in a variety of financial instruments and, by
policy, limits the amount of credit exposure through diversification and by
restricting its investments to highly rated securities.

The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
manufacturers throughout the world. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of its customers' financial condition and, generally, requires
collateral, such as letters of credit, whenever deemed necessary. In 1998, the
two largest distributors accounted for 30% and 21% of sales. In 1997, the two
largest distributors accounted for 32% and 18% of sales, whereas in 1996, they
each accounted for 29% and 15% of sales, respectively.

At December 31, 1998, three distributors, each of which accounted for more than
10% of the Company's accounts receivable, accounted for 58% of total accounts
receivable in aggregate. Two distributors combined accounted for 35% and 31% of
accounts receivable at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONTRACTS | The Company purchases the majority of its materials
and services in U.S. dollars and its foreign sales are also billed in U.S.
dollars. However, certain contracts for silicon wafer purchases are denominated
in Japanese yen. At times, the Company enters into foreign exchange options or
forward contracts to hedge against currency fluctuations that affect these and
other transactions. As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company had no open
foreign exchange contracts for the purchase or sale of foreign currencies. The
Company may choose to enter into such contracts in the future should conditions
appear favorable.

REVENUE RECOGNITION | The Company recognizes revenue from product sales upon
shipment to OEMs and end-users. Reserves for sales returns and allowances are
recorded at the time of shipment. The Company's sales to distributors are made
under agreements allowing for returns or credits under certain circumstances
and, effective the first day of 1997, the Company defers recognition of revenue
on sales to distributors until products are resold by the distributor to the
end-user. See Note 14.


                                       22
<PAGE>   24
DEPENDENCE ON WAFER SUPPLIERS | The Company does not directly manufacture
finished silicon wafers. The Company's strategy has been to maintain
relationships with wafer foundries. The Company has been successful in
maintaining such relationships (Notes 5 and 6). However, there can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to satisfy its future wafer needs from
current or alternative manufacturing sources. This could result in possible loss
of sales or reduced margins.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION PLANS | The Company accounts for stock-based
compensation using the intrinsic value method prescribed in Accounting
Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees." Under APB No. 25, compensation cost is measured as the excess, if
any, of the quoted market price of the Company's stock at the date of grant over
the exercise price of the option granted. Compensation cost for stock options,
if any, is recognized ratably over the vesting period. The Company's policy is
to grant options with an exercise price equal to the quoted market price of the
Company's stock on the grant date. Accordingly, no compensation has been
recognized for its stock option plans. The Company provides additional pro forma
disclosures as required under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." See Note 10.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | In June 1997, The Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income." SFAS No. 130
establishes standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its
components and is effective for periods beginning after December 15, 1997. The
Company adopted this statement as of the first quarter of 1998. Comprehensive
income approximated net income for all periods presented.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS | In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." SFAS No. 133
establishes standards for accounting and reporting on derivative instruments for
periods beginning after June 15, 1999 and early adoption is permitted. SFAS No.
133 requires that all derivative instruments be recognized in the balance sheet
as either assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. Furthermore, SFAS
No. 133 requires current recognition in earnings of changes in the fair value of
derivative instruments depending on the intended use of the derivative and the
resulting designation. The Company expects that its adoption of SFAS No. 133,
which will become effective in fiscal year 2000, will not have a material effect
on the Company's financial statements.


                                       23
<PAGE>   25

Note 3: Income Per Share

Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income available to
common stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
during the period and excludes the dilutive effect of stock options. Diluted net
income per share gives effect to all dilutive potential common shares
outstanding during a period. In computing diluted net income per share, the tax
benefit resulting from employee stock transactions and the average stock price
for the period are used in determining the number of shares assumed to be
purchased from exercise of stock options. A reconciliation of the numerators and
denominators of the basic and diluted income per share is presented below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands, except per share amounts)                                      1998               1997                1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                   <C>                <C>                 <C>         
Basic:
         Income before cumulative effect of change in
           accounting principle                                       $    154,387       $    151,517        $    109,135
         Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                    --            (18,064)                 --
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
         Net income                                                   $    154,387       $    133,453        $    109,135
                                                                      ===================================================

         Weighted shares outstanding                                        93,493             88,525              87,406
                                                                      ===================================================
         Per share:
         Income before cumulative effect of change in
           accounting principle                                       $       1.65       $       1.71        $       1.25
         Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                    --              (0.20)                 --
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
         Net income                                                   $       1.65       $       1.51        $       1.25
                                                                      ===================================================

Diluted:
         Income before cumulative effect of change in
           accounting principle                                       $    154,387       $    151,517        $    109,135
         Effect of 5.75% convertible subordinated notes                      4,039              7,224               7,440
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
         Income before cumulative effect of change in
           accounting principle including the effect of
           dilutive securities                                             158,426            158,741             116,575
         Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                    --            (18,064)                 --
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
         Net income                                                   $    158,426       $    140,677        $    116,575
                                                                      ===================================================

         Weighted shares outstanding                                        93,493             88,525              87,406
         Effect of dilutive securities:
           Stock options                                                     4,033              5,101               4,417
           5.75% convertible subordinated notes                              4,063              8,990               8,990
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
                                                                           101,589            102,616             100,813
                                                                      ===================================================
Per share:
         Income before cumulative effect of change in
           accounting principle                                       $       1.56       $       1.55        $       1.16
         Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                    --              (0.18)                 --
                                                                      ---------------------------------------------------
         Net income                                                   $       1.56       $       1.37        $       1.16
                                                                      ===================================================
</TABLE>


Note 4: Marketable Securities

The Company's portfolio of marketable securities consists of the following:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    December 31,
(In thousands)                                                     1998              1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                        <C>               <C>         
Money market funds                                         $      6,833      $        763
Municipal bonds                                                 475,469           315,987
U.S. government and agency obligations                            9,170            13,540
Corporate bonds                                                  17,291            24,919
Certificates of deposit and other debt securities                31,086             5,055
                                                           ------------------------------
                                                           $    539,849      $    360,264
                                                           ==============================
</TABLE>


                                       24
<PAGE>   26

The Company's portfolio of marketable securities by contractual maturity are as
follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       December 31,
(In thousands)                                        1998              1997
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>               <C>         
Due in one year or less                       $    163,231      $     58,191
Due after one year through two years               376,618           302,073
                                              ------------------------------
                                              $    539,849      $    360,264
                                              ==============================
</TABLE>

At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the net unrealized gains and losses on securities
were immaterial.

Note 5: Joint Venture

In June 1996, the Company, TSMC and several other partners formed WaferTech, LLC
("WaferTech"), a joint-venture company, to build and operate a wafer
manufacturing plant in Camas, Washington. In return for a $140.4 million cash
investment, the Company received an 18% equity ownership in the joint-venture
company and certain rights and obligations to procure up to 27% of the factory's
output at market prices. In January 1999, the Company purchased from Analog
Devices, Inc. an additional 5% equity ownership interest in WaferTech for
approximately $37.5 million, increasing its ownership interest to 23%. This
increased investment in WaferTech provides the Company with additional rights
and obligations to procure up to 35% of the factory's future output. WaferTech
began wafer production in October 1998. Based on WaferTech's production
projections, the Company believes that it will meet its minimum purchase
obligations from WaferTech through at least 1999.

The Company accounts for this investment under the equity method based on the
Company's ability to exercise significant influence on the operating and
financial policies of WaferTech. The carrying value of the investment in
WaferTech exceeded the Company's share of the net assets of WaferTech due to a
portion of TSMC's equity contribution being paid through the grant of
manufacturing and technology obligations and licenses along with certain real
estate and equipment purchase options. This difference will be amortized over
the useful lives of the assets which gave rise to the difference. The Company's
equity in the loss of WaferTech was $10.4 million for 1998 and was not material
for 1997 and 1996.

The Company has an obligation to guarantee a pro rata share of debt incurred by
WaferTech up to a maximum of $45 million. In May 1998, WaferTech secured a loan
facility of up to $350 million which was subsequently reduced to $225 million in
December 1998.

At December 31, 1998, WaferTech's total assets were $804.1 million of which
$25.1 million were current, and its total liabilities were $218.1 million of
which $25.4 million were current. For the year ended December 31, 1998,
WaferTech's net revenues were $6.8 million and the loss was $70.9 million.


Note 6: Investments and Obligations

At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company's long-term investments primarily
relate to its investment in WaferTech of $123.4 million and $140.4 million,
respectively. Long-term investments also include the long-term portion of
deposits with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company ("TSMC") for future
wafer allocations of $16.8 million and $33.6 million at December 31, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

In 1995, the Company entered into several agreements with TSMC, whereby it
agreed to make a $57.1 million deposit to TSMC for future wafer capacity
allocations extending into 2000. Under the terms of the agreement, TSMC agrees
to provide the Company with wafers manufactured using TSMC processes and
according to the Company's specifications, and the Company agrees to purchase
and TSMC agrees to supply, a specific capacity of wafers per year through 2000.
Billings for actual wafers used from TSMC reduce the prepaid balance. The
prepayments are generally nonrefundable if the Company does not purchase the
full prepaid capacity unless the Company identifies a third-party purchaser,
acceptable to TSMC, for the capacity.


                                       25
<PAGE>   27
Note 7: Commitments

The Company leases certain of its sales facilities under non-cancelable lease
agreements expiring at various times through 2004. The leases require the
Company to pay property taxes, insurance, maintenance, and repair costs. Future
minimum lease payments under all non-cancelable operating leases are as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         Years ending December 31,           (In thousands)
         --------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>         
         1999                                  $      2,459
         2000                                         1,731
         2001                                           333
         2002                                           214
         2003                                           170
         Thereafter                                       7
                                               ------------
                                               $      4,914
                                               ============
</TABLE>

The Company has the option to extend or renew most of its leases. Rental expense
under all operating leases amounted to $2.5 million, $4.4 million and $4.0
million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

The Company has a standby letter of credit facility in the amount of 475 million
yen (approximately $4.3 million at December 31, 1998). The terms of this
facility require immediate funding of any draws against any letters of credit
issued under the facility. The facility requires the Company to comply with
certain covenants regarding net worth and financial ratios.


Note 8: Convertible Subordinated Notes

In June 1995, the Company issued $230.0 million of convertible subordinated
notes due in June 2002 and bearing an interest rate of 5.75%, payable
semi-annually. The notes were convertible into shares of the Company's common
stock at a price of $25.59 per share. Discounts, commissions, and expenses,
which were amortized over the seven-year life of the notes, reduced the net
proceeds to $224.8 million. Accumulated amortization at December 31, 1997 and
1996 amounted to approximately $2.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively.

On May 15, 1998, the Company called for the redemption of the notes effective
June 16, 1998. As a result, substantially all of the notes were converted into
8,988,649 shares of common stock with the remaining notes redeemed at a price of
$1,033.06 per $1,000 principal amount of the notes. Total semi-annual interest
paid on the notes during 1998 was $6.5 million. The unamortized debt issuance
costs as of the redemption date of approximately $3.1 million was recorded as a
reduction to additional paid-in-capital.


Note 9: Stockholders' Equity

COMMON STOCK REPURCHASES | On July 15, 1996, the Board of Directors authorized
the repurchase of up to 2 million shares of the Company's common stock. During
fiscal 1996, the Company repurchased a total of 300,000 (split-adjusted) shares
of common stock for an aggregate price of $4.3 million. In June 1998, the
Company's Board of Directors increased the number of shares authorized for
repurchase to 6 million shares. During fiscal 1998, the Company repurchased a
total of 1,810,000 shares of common stock for an aggregate cost of $60.4
million. Since the inception of the repurchase program through December 31,
1998, the Company has repurchased a total of 2,110,000 shares. All shares were
retired upon acquisition.

COMMON STOCK SPLITS | All share data have been restated to reflect a 2-for-1
split of the Company's outstanding common stock which was reflected in the stock
price as of January 7, 1997 and was effective as to the stockholders of record
on December 18, 1996.


                                       26
<PAGE>   28
Note 10: Stock-Based Compensation Plans

At December 31, 1998, the Company had five stock-based compensation plans, which
are described below. The Company applies APB No. 25 in accounting for its plans.
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its four fixed stock
option plans and its stock purchase plan.

STOCK OPTION PLANS | As of December 31, 1998, the 1987 Stock Option Plan had 6.2
million shares reserved for issuance thereunder, the 1996 Stock Option Plan had
6.5 million shares reserved for issuance thereunder, the 1988 Director Stock
Option Plan had 478,000 shares reserved for issuance thereunder, and the 1998
Director Stock Option Plan had 170,000 shares reserved for issuance thereunder.
Upon the adoption of the 1996 Stock Option Plan, any shares reserved for
issuance under the 1987 Stock Option Plan relating to ungranted stock options
were cancelled. Upon the adoption of the 1998 Director Stock Option Plan, any
shares reserved for issuance under the 1988 Director Stock Option Plan relating
to ungranted stock options were cancelled.

The 1998 Director Stock Option Plan provides for the periodic issuance of stock
options to members of the Company's Board of Directors who are not also
employees of the Company. Under all stock option plans, the exercise price of
each option equals the market price of the Company's stock on the date of grant
and an option's maximum term is 10 years. Options granted prior to October 1997
generally vest over five years at annual increments as determined by the Board
of Directors. In October 1997, the Board of Directors approved a proposal to
shorten the vesting period for new grants under the 1996 Stock Option Plan
whereby options granted subsequent to September 30, 1997 will generally vest
over four years at annual increments as determined by the Board of Directors.

The number of shares for which options were exercisable under all stock option
plans was approximately 4,472,000, 3,488,000 and 2,960,000, at December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. A summary of the Company's stock option
activity and related weighted average exercise prices within each category for
each of the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           1998                        1997                        1996
(In thousands, except price per share amounts)       Shares         Price        Shares         Price        Shares         Price
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>       
Options outstanding at January 1,                    12,433    $    19.17        12,500    $     5.07        10,059    $     3.02
Stock options:                                
  Granted                                             2,207         40.12         2,016         43.32         3,433         26.25
  Exercised                                          (1,055)         8.40        (1,400)         6.05          (620)        28.54
  Forfeited                                            (848)        25.58          (683)        16.42          (372)        13.40
                                                 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options outstanding at December 31,                  12,737    $    21.82        12,433    $    19.17        12,500    $     5.07
                                                 ================================================================================
</TABLE>


The fair value of each option grant, as defined by SFAS No. 123, is estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The
Black-Scholes model, as well as other currently accepted option valuation
models, was developed to estimate the fair value of freely tradable, fully
transferable options without vesting restrictions, which significantly differ
from the Company's stock option awards. These models also require highly
subjective assumptions, including future stock price volatility and expected
time until exercise, which greatly affect the fair value on the grant date. To
compute the estimated grant date fair value of the Company's stock option grants
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, the Black-Scholes method was used with the
following weighted-average assumptions: expected volatility of 48.0%, 40.6% and
36.4%, risk-free interest rates of 5.2%, 6.2% and 5.9%, expected lives from
vesting date of 0.73, 0.56 and 0.41 years, and dividend yields of 0%. The
weighted-average fair value per share of stock options granted in 1998, 1997 and
1996 were $16.84, $18.41 and $10.23, respectively.


                                       27
<PAGE>   29
The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1998:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
            Options Outstanding                Options Exercisable
                                 Number              Weighted          Weighted             Number           Weighted
Range of                      Outstanding            Average            Average          Exercisable          Average
Exercise Prices               at 12/31/98           Remaining          Exercise          at 12/31/98         Exercise
                              (In thousands)    Contractual Life        Price          (In thousands)          Price
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>              <C>                     <C>             <C>             <C>   
$ 1.81 - $ 6.12                    2,719            3.51 years          $ 3.52              2,441             $ 3.42
$ 6.13 - $ 9.25                    1,566            5.49                  7.15                855               7.18
$ 9.26 - $20.88                    1,391            7.13                 17.63                250              14.29
$20.89 - $31.38                    3,640            7.84                 26.76                618              25.70
$31.39 - $38.69                    2,402            8.33                 34.71                302              34.56
$38.70 - $49.57                      142            9.47                 42.23                 --                 --
$49.58 - $63.82                      877            9.89                 52.20                  6              52.37
                              ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  12,737            6.80                $21.82              4,472             $10.00
                              =======================================================================================
</TABLE>


Effective January 30, 1998, the Company offered employees, except all officers
and director level employees, the right to re-price their stock options granted
from January 1, 1995 through January 19, 1998. The re-priced options have an
exercise price of $34.25, the fair value of the Company's common stock on the
effective date, and the vesting schedule of such options was extended by three
months. In connection with this action, approximately 1.3 million options were
re-priced which previously had a weighted average exercise price of $48.50.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN | As of December 31, 1998, the 1987 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan had 3.1 million shares of common stock reserved for issuance.
Under the terms of the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, full-time employees, nearly
all of whom are eligible to participate, can choose each year to have up to 10
percent of their annual base earnings withheld to purchase the Company's common
stock. The purchase price of the stock is 85 percent of the lower of the closing
price at the beginning or at the end of each six-month offering period.
Approximately 85 to 90 percent of eligible employees have participated in the
plan in 1998, and approximately 75 to 80 percent of eligible employees
participated in 1996 and 1997.

Sales under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan in 1998, 1997 and 1996 were
221,563, 173,294 and 167,626 shares of common stock at an average price of
$28.53, $25.46 and $21.49 per share, respectively. There were 256,475 shares
available for future purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan as of
December 31, 1998.

Pro forma compensation cost is recognized for the fair value of the employees'
purchase rights, which was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the
following assumptions for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively: an expected life of
six months for all years; expected volatility of 56.0%, 44.7% and 38.4%;
risk-free interest rates of 5.3%, 5.3% and 5.1%; and dividend yields of 0%. The
weighted-average estimated fair value per share of those purchase rights granted
in 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $10.10, $11.65 and $5.55, respectively.

The Company received a $9.0 million, $20.0 million and $4.5 million tax benefit
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, on the exercise of non-qualified stock
options and on the disposition of stock acquired with an incentive stock option
or through the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 

PRO FORMA NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER SHARE | Had the Company recorded
compensation costs based on the estimated grant date fair value as defined by
SFAS No. 123, for awards granted under its Stock Option Plans and Stock Purchase
Plan, the Company's net income and net income per share would have been reduced
to the pro forma amounts below for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In thousands, except per share amounts)                1998                 1997                 1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>                  <C>                  <C>       
Pro forma net income                              $  139,986           $  116,054           $   99,885
Pro forma net income per share:
Basic                                             $     1.50           $     1.31           $     1.14
Diluted                                                 1.44                 1.21                 1.08
</TABLE>


                                       28
<PAGE>   30
The pro forma amounts reflect compensation expense related to 1998, 1997 and
1996 stock option grants only. In future years, the annual compensation expense
will increase as a result of the fair value of stock options granted in those
future years.

Note 11: Income Taxes

U.S. and foreign components of income before income taxes were:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands)                                1998              1997              1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>               <C>               <C>       
United States                           $  207,273        $  229,436        $  168,302
Foreign                                     36,910               135               835
                                        ----------------------------------------------
    Income before income taxes          $  244,183        $  229,571        $  169,137
                                        ==============================================
</TABLE>

Unremitted earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries that are considered
permanently invested outside the United States and on which no deferred taxes
have been provided, aggregate to approximately $25.3 million at December 31,
1998.


The provision for income taxes consists of:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands)                                      1998               1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                <C>                <C>       
Current tax expense:
United States                                 $   62,978         $   70,399         $   57,680
State                                             15,488             14,328              9,799
Foreign                                            7,458              1,695                586
                                              ----------         ----------         ----------
    Total current tax expense                     85,924             86,422             68,065
Deferred taxes                                    (6,568)            (8,368)            (8,063)
                                              ----------         ----------         ----------
    Total provision for income taxes          $   79,356         $   78,054         $   60,002
                                              ==========         ==========         ==========
</TABLE>


The tax benefit associated with the Company's equity in the net loss of
WaferTech (Note 5) reduced taxes currently payable by $5.0 million for 1998. The
benefits for 1997 and 1996 were not material.

Deferred tax assets (liabilities) were as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         December 31,
(In thousands)                                          1998               1997
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>                <C>         
Assets:
Accrued expenses and reserves                   $     60,448       $     56,592
Acquisition costs                                      6,613              7,273
State taxes                                            4,788              4,200
Other                                                  3,856              1,726
                                                -------------------------------
    Gross deferred tax assets                         75,705             69,791
Deferred tax liabilities                              (2,090)            (2,084)
Deferred tax asset valuation allowance                (3,971)            (4,631)
                                                -------------------------------
    Net deferred tax assets                     $     69,644       $     63,076
                                                ===============================
</TABLE>

The valuation allowances of $4.0 and $4.6 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997
are attributable to deferred tax assets from the 1994 acquisition of Intel's
programmable logic business. Sufficient uncertainty exists regarding the
realizability of these assets and, accordingly, valuation allowances are
required.


                                       29
<PAGE>   31
The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the
federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands)                                            1998               1997               1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>                <C>                <C>         
Tax provision at U.S. statutory rates             $     85,464       $     80,350       $     59,198
State taxes net of federal benefit                       8,061              7,290              6,172
Foreign income taxed at lower rates                     (6,830)                --                 --
Interest income on municipal obligations                (5,014)            (4,270)            (2,975)
Other net                                               (2,325)            (5,316)            (2,393)
                                                  --------------------------------------------------
    Total provision for income taxes              $     79,356       $     78,054       $     60,002
                                                  ==================================================
</TABLE>

Note 12: Litigation

In June 1993, Xilinx, Inc. ("Xilinx") brought suit against the Company seeking
monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged
infringement of certain patents held by Xilinx. In June 1993, the Company
brought suit against Xilinx, seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief
based on Xilinx's alleged infringement of certain patents held by the Company.
In April 1995, the Company filed a separate lawsuit against Xilinx in Delaware,
Xilinx's state of incorporation, seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief
based on Xilinx's alleged infringement of one of the Company's patents. In May
1995, Xilinx counterclaimed against the Company in Delaware, asserting defenses
and seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's
alleged infringement of certain patents held by Xilinx. Subsequently, the
Delaware case has been transferred to California. In October 1998, both parties
filed motions for summary judgment with respect to certain issues in the first
two cases regarding infringement or non-infringement and validity or invalidity
of the patents at issue in the respective cases. In the event that the court
were to rule against the Company in certain of these motions, the Company could
be adversely impacted by the potential monetary damages or injunctive relief
that could ultimately be awarded to Xilinx. Due to the nature of the litigation
with Xilinx and because the lawsuits are still in the pre-trial stage, the
Company's management cannot estimate the total expense, the possible loss, if
any, or the range of loss that may ultimately be incurred in connection with the
allegations. Management cannot ensure that Xilinx will not succeed in obtaining
significant monetary damages or an injunction against the manufacture and sale
of the Company's MAX 5000, MAX 7000, FLEX 8000 or MAX 9000 families of products,
or succeed in invalidating any of the Company's patents. Although no assurances
can be given as to the results of these cases, based on the present status,
management does not believe that any of such results will have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

In August 1994, Advanced Micro Devices ("AMD") brought suit against the Company
seeking monetary damages and injunctive relief based on the Company's alleged
infringement of certain patents held by AMD. In September 1994, Altera answered
the complaint asserting that it is licensed to use the patents which AMD claims
are infringed and filed a counterclaim against AMD alleging infringement of
certain patents held by the Company. In October 1997, upon completion of trials
bifurcated from the infringement claims, the Court ruled that the Company is
licensed under all patents asserted by AMD in the suit. In December 1997, AMD
filed a Notice of Appeal of the Court's rulings. Due to the nature of the
litigation with AMD, and because AMD has appealed the court rulings that the
Company is licensed under all of the patents asserted by AMD in the suit, the
Company's management cannot estimate the total expense, the possible loss, if
any, or the range of loss that may ultimately be incurred in connection with the
allegations. Management cannot ensure that AMD will not succeed in obtaining
significant monetary damages or an injunction against the manufacture and sale
of the Classic, MAX 5000, MAX 7000, FLEX 8000, MAX 9000, FLEX 10K and FLASHlogic
product families, or succeed in invalidating any of the Company's patents
remaining in the suit. Although no assurances can be given to the results of
this case, based on its present status, management does not believe that any of
such results will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.


                                       30
<PAGE>   32
Note 13: Segment and Geographic Information

The Company operates in a single industry segment comprising the design,
development, manufacture, and sale of CMOS programmable logic integrated
circuits and associated engineering development software and hardware. The
Company's sales by major geographic area (based on destination) were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              Year Ended December 31,
(In thousands)                           1998              1997              1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>               <C>               <C>         
North America:
United States                    $    336,295      $    300,068      $    235,560
Other                                  22,627            49,380            30,003
                                 ------------      ------------      ------------
    Total North America               358,922           349,448           265,563
Europe                                149,391           130,827           106,661
Japan                                 118,342           116,981            94,786
Asia Pacific                           27,687            33,858            30,296
                                 ------------      ------------      ------------
    Total                        $    654,342      $    631,114      $    497,306
                                 ============      ============      ============
</TABLE>


The majority of the Company's long-lived assets were located in the United
States. Long-lived assets included net property and equipment, long-term
investments and assets. Long-lived assets that were outside the United States
constituted less than 10% of the Company's total. There was no single end
customer providing more than 10% of the Company's sales for years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.


Note 14: Accounting Change - Recognition of Revenue on Sales to Distributors

In October 1997, the Company changed its accounting method for recognizing
revenue on sales to distributors with an effective date of January 1, 1997. The
Company previously recognized revenue upon shipment to distributors net of
appropriate reserves for sales returns and allowances. Following the accounting
change, revenue recognition on shipments to distributors is deferred until the
products are resold to the end customers. The Company believes that deferral of
revenue on distributor sales and related gross margins until the product is
shipped by the distributors results in a more meaningful measurement of results
of operations and is more consistent with industry practice and, therefore, is a
preferable method of accounting. The cumulative effect prior to 1997 of the
change in accounting method was a charge of $18.1 million (net of $9.3 million
of income taxes) or $0.18 per diluted share in 1997. The estimated pro forma
effect of the accounting change on prior years' results is as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   Year Ended  December 31,
(In thousands, except per share amounts)                               1997              1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>               <C>         
As reported:
    Sales                                                      $    631,114      $    497,306
    Net income                                                      133,453           109,135
    Diluted net income per share                                       1.37              1.16
Pro forma amounts with the change in accounting 
principle related to revenue
recognition applied retroactively:
    Sales                                                           631,114           497,006
    Net income                                                      151,517           109,090
    Diluted net income per share                                       1.55              1.16
</TABLE>


                                       31
<PAGE>   33
                        Report of Independent Accountants

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Altera Corporation:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, of stockholders' equity, and of cash
flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altera
Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the
period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

As discussed in Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements, in 1997 the
Company changed its method of recognizing revenue.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California
January 19, 1999


                                       32
<PAGE>   34
Supplementary Financial Data

Quarterly Financial Information (UNAUDITED)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In thousands, except per share amounts)                           First         Second         Third        Fourth
                                                                 Quarter        Quarter       Quarter       Quarter
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                            <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>      
1998
Sales                                                          $ 157,216      $ 160,476     $ 164,218     $ 172,432
Gross profit                                                      97,126         98,785       101,707       107,250
Net income                                                        35,135         36,616        40,143        42,493
Basic net income per share                                          0.40           0.41          0.41          0.44
Diluted net income per share                                        0.37           0.38          0.40          0.42

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1997
Sales                                                          $ 146,043      $ 165,857     $ 162,126     $ 157,088
Gross profit                                                      90,688        103,970       101,377        98,121
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle               18,064              -             -             -
Net income                                                        17,538         40,454        38,811        36,650

Basic income per share:
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change                0.41           0.46          0.44          0.41
Net income                                                          0.20           0.46          0.44          0.41

Diluted income per share:
Income before cumulative effect of accounting change                0.36           0.41          0.40          0.38
Net income                                                          0.19           0.41          0.40          0.38
</TABLE>


ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

         None.


                                       33
<PAGE>   35
                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

          The executive officers and directors of the Company and their ages are
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
            NAME                        AGE                POSITION WITH THE COMPANY
            ----                        ---                -------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>
     Rodney Smith...................    58        Chairman of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer
     C. Wendell Bergere.............    53        Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
     Denis Berlan...................    48        Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
     Erik Cleage....................    38        Senior Vice President, Marketing
     John R. Fitzhenry..............    49        Vice President, Human Resources
     Nathan Sarkisian...............    40        Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
     Peter Smyth....................    60        Vice President, Sales
     Charles M. Clough(1)...........    70        Director
     Michael A. Ellison(2)(3).......    53        Director
     Paul Newhagen (1)..............    49        Director
     Robert W. Reed(3)..............    52        Director
     Deborah D. Rieman..............    49        Director
     William E. Terry(1)(2).........    65        Director
</TABLE>

- ------------

(1) Member of Nominating Committee.
(2) Member of Compensation Committee.
(3) Member of Audit Committee.

All directors hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders or until
their successors have been elected and qualified. There are no family
relationships between any of the directors or executive officers of the Company.

RODNEY SMITH joined the Company in November 1983 as Chairman of the Board of
Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer. Prior to that time, he held
various management positions with Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation
("Fairchild"), a semiconductor manufacturer.

C. WENDELL BERGERE joined the Company in August 1995 as Vice President,
General Counsel and Secretary. Prior to joining the Company, from 1993 to 1995,
Mr. Bergere was Special Counsel at the law firm of Sheppard, Mullin, Richter
& Hampton. From 1982 to 1993, he was Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary of The Perkin-Elmer Corporation, a producer of analytical and life
science systems.

DENIS M. BERLAN joined the Company in December 1989 as Vice President, Product
Engineering and was named Vice President, Operations and Product Engineering in
October 1994. In January 1996, he was named Vice President, Operations. In
January 1997, he was named Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
He was previously employed by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD"), a
semiconductor manufacturer, and by Lattice Semiconductor Corporation, a
semiconductor manufacturer, in engineering management capacities.

ERIK CLEAGE joined the Company as International Marketing Manager in February
1986. He became Director, Japan and Asia Pacific Sales in April 1989, was
appointed Vice President, Marketing in August 1990 and Senior Vice President,
Marketing in January 1999. Previously, he was employed by AMD and Fairchild in
various positions.

JOHN R. FITZHENRY joined the Company in May 1995 as Vice President of Human
Resources. From 1983 to May 1995, he was employed by Apple Computer, Inc., a
manufacturer of personal computers, in various human resource management
positions.


                                       34
<PAGE>   36
NATHAN SARKISIAN joined the Company in June 1992 as Corporate Controller. He
was appointed Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer in August 1995
and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in March 1998. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Sarkisian held various accounting and financial
positions at Fairchild, and at Schlumberger, an oil field services company.

PETER SMYTH joined the Company in May 1990 as Vice President of Sales. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Smyth served as Vice President of Sales at Precision
Monolithics, Inc., a semiconductor manufacturer, and Vice President of North
American Sales at Mostek, a semiconductor manufacturer. Mr. Smyth was also
previously associated with Texas Instruments in a variety of sales and marketing
capacities.

CHARLES M. CLOUGH has served as a director of the Company since August 1997. In
August 1997, Mr. Clough retired from his position as Chairman of the Board of
Directors of Wyle Electronics, a distributor of semiconductor products and
computer systems. From 1982 to 1997, Mr. Clough held various management
positions at Wyle Electronics, including President, Chief Executive Officer and
Chairman. Wyle Electronics is one of the Company's authorized distributors in
the United States. Prior to joining Wyle Electronics, he had spent 27 years with
Texas Instruments holding a number of management and executive positions
relating to semiconductor operations, including the head of Bipolar operations,
European Semiconductor group and worldwide marketing.

MICHAEL A. ELLISON has served as a director of the Company since April 1984.
Since October 1994, Mr. Ellison has been the Chief Executive Officer of Steller,
Inc., a distributor of electronic parts. Until December 1992, he was a General
Partner at Cable & Howse Ventures, a venture capital investment firm, and
following that a private venture capital investor.

PAUL NEWHAGEN, a co-founder of the Company, has served as a director of the
Company since July 1987. In March 1998, Mr. Newhagen retired from his position
as Vice President - Administration of the Company, a position he had held since
December 1984. From June 1993 to November 1994, he served as a consultant to the
Company. From 1983 to 1993, Mr. Newhagen held various management positions at
the company, including Vice President of Finance and Administration, Chief
Financial Officer and Secretary.

ROBERT W. REED has served as a director of the Company since October 1994. In
1996, Mr. Reed retired from his position as Senior Vice President of Intel
Corporation, a semiconductor manufacturer. From 1983 to 1991 Mr.
Reed was Intel's Chief Financial Officer.

DEBORAH D. RIEMAN has served as a director of the Company since May 1996. Dr.
Rieman is the President and Chief Executive Officer of CheckPoint Software
Technologies, Inc. ("CheckPoint"), an Internet security software company, and a
director of CheckPoint's Israeli parent company, CheckPoint Software
Technologies, Ltd. Prior to joining CheckPoint, Dr. Rieman held various
marketing and technical executive positions with Adobe Systems Inc., a computer
software company, Sun Microsystems Inc., a computer networking company, and
Xerox Corp., a diversified electronics manufacturer.

WILLIAM E. TERRY has served as a director of the Company since August 1994. Mr.
Terry is a former director and Executive Vice President of the Hewlett-Packard
Company, a diversified electronics manufacturing company. At Hewlett-Packard, he
held a number of senior management positions, including general manager of
Hewlett-Packard's Data Products and Instrument Groups, and subsequently had
overall responsibility for the Measurement Systems Sector. He retired from
Hewlett-Packard in November 1993. Mr. Terry also serves as a director of Key
Tronic Corporation and Phase Metrics, Inc.

The section entitled "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance"
in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on May 26, 1999 (the "Proxy Statement") is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

The section entitled "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement
is incorporated herein by reference.


                                       35

<PAGE>   37
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

The section entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" in the Company's Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

The sections entitled "Director Compensation" and "Certain Business
Relationships" in the Company's Proxy Statement are incorporated herein by
reference.


                                       36

<PAGE>   38

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

(a)1.    Financial Statements

The information required by this item is included in Item 8 of Part II of this
Form 10-K.

2.   Financial Statement Schedules.

All schedules have been omitted as they are either not required, not applicable,
or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes
thereto.

3.   Exhibits.

EXHIBIT             
NUMBER                                  EXHIBIT
- -------                                 -------

3.1         Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Delaware Secretary of
            State on March 25, 1997 (which became the Certificate of
            Incorporation of the Registrant on June 19, 1997).(15)

3.2         By-laws of the Registrant as adopted May 5, 1997 (which became the
            By-laws of the Registrant on June 19, 1997).(15)

4.1         Specimen copy of certificate for shares of Common Stock of the
            Registrant.(16)

4.2         Indenture Agreement dated as of June 15, 1995 by and between
            Registrant and the First National Bank of Boston, as Trustee.(11)

4.3         Form of Convertible Subordinated Note due 2002.(11)

4.4         First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 19, 1997 to Indenture
            dated as of June 15, 1995.(15)

10.1*       License Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 with Intel
            Corporation.(9)

10.2*       Supply Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 with Intel
            Corporation.(9)

10.3(a)+    1987 Stock Option Plan, and forms of Incentive and Nonstatutory
            Stock Option Agreements, as amended March 22, 1995 and as restated
            effective May 10, 1995.(12)

10.4(b)+    1987 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and form of Subscription
            Agreement, as amended May 10, 1995.(12)

10.6*       Technology License and Manufacturing Agreement with Cypress
            Semiconductor Corporation, dated June 19, 1987.(1)

10.6(a)*    Termination Agreement dated November 23, 1993, regarding Technology
            License and Manufacturing Agreement with Cypress Semiconductor
            Corporation.(7)

10.11       Form of Sales Representative Agreement.(1)

10.22*      Advanced Micro Devices, formerly MMI, Settlement Agreement and
            associated Series E Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement and Patent
            License Agreement, all dated March 31, 1987.(1)

10.25       Product Distribution Agreement with Wyle Electronics Marketing
            Group, effective May 16, 1984, as amended.(1)

10.26       Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into with each of the
            Company's officers and directors.(16)

10.30(a)*   Amendment No. 2 to Technology License and Manufacturing Agreement
            with Texas Instruments Incorporated, dated effective October 1,
            1990.(5)

10.31       Product Distribution Agreement with LEX Electronics, Inc., formerly
            Schweber Electronics Corporation effective December 22, 1988, as
            amended.(2)

10.31(a)    Consent to Assignment of Product Distribution Agreement, effective
            September 23, 1991.(6)

10.33(b)+   1988 Director Stock Option Plan and form of Outside Director
            Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement, as amended January 18, 1995 and
            as restated effective May 10, 1995.(10)

10.35       Master Distribution Agreement with Japan Macnics Corporation dated
            June 26, 1986, as amended effective March 18, 1987.(6)

10.37       LSI Products Supply Agreement with Sharp Corporation, dated October
            1, 1993.(7)

10.38+      Altera Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust
            Agreement dated February 1 1994, and form of Deferred Compensation
            Agreement.(7)

10.39       Wafer Supply Agreement dated June 26, 1995 between Registrant and
            Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(11)


                                       37
<PAGE>   39
EXHIBIT             
NUMBER                                  EXHIBIT
- -------                                 -------

10.40       Option Agreement dated June 26, 1995 between Registrant and Taiwan
            Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(11)

10.41       Memorandum of Intent dated October 1, 1995 between Registrant and
            Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(13)

10.42       Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 1, 1995 to Wafer Supply
            Agreement dated as of June 26, 1995 by and between Registrant and
            Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. And to Option Agreement
            1 dated as of June 26, 1995 between Registrant and Taiwan
            Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(13)

10.43       Option Agreement 2 dated as of October 1, 1995 by and between
            Registrant and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (13)

10.44       Option Agreement 3 dated as of October 1, 1995 by and between
            Registrant and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(13)

10.45(a)+   1996 Stock Option Plan.(13)

10.45(b)+   Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1996 Stock Option Plan.(13)

10.46       Owner/Contractor Agreement for Construction between Registrant and
            Rudolph and Sletten, Inc. dated January 10, 1996.(13)

10.47       Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of
            Wafertech, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, dated as of
            October 28, 1997.(16)(17)

10.48       Purchase Agreement by and between Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
            Co., Ltd., as Seller, and Analog Devices, Inc., the Registrant and
            Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc., as Buyers (dated as of June 25,
            1996).(14)

10.49       Rescission (dated as of June 25, 1996) of Option Agreement 1 dated
            as of June 26, 1995 by and between the Registrant and Taiwan
            Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(14)

10.50       Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 18, 1997.(15)

#10.51(a)+  1998 Director Stock Option Plan.

#10.51(b)+  Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1998 Director Stock Option
            Plan.

#10.52      Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 29, 1999,
            by and between Registrant and Analog Devices, Inc.

#11.1       Computation of Earnings per Share (included on page 24).

#13.1       Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1998 (to be deemed filed only to the extent required by the
            instructions to Exhibits for Reports on Form 10-K).

#21.1       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

#23.1       Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

#24.1       Power of Attorney (included on page 40).

#27.1       Financial Data Schedule.

- --------------
(1)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 16(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Registration
     Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-17717), as amended, which became
     effective March 29, 1988.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended March 31, 1990, as amended by a Form 8 filed on July
     13, 1990.

(5)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990.

(6)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.


                                       38
<PAGE>   40

(7)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

(8)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 7, "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 8-K
     dated October 15, 1994 and 8-KA dated December 15, 1994.

(9)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended September 30, 1994.

(10) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

(11) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

(12) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 8, "Exhibits," of the registrant's Registration Statement
     on Form S-8 (File No. 33-61085), as amended, which became effective July
     17, 1995.

(13) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

(14) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

(15) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

(16) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.

(17) Exhibits to this document are incorporated by reference to the exhibits to
     the identically numbered document filed in response to Item 6(a),
     "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
     June 30, 1996.

- --------------
*    Confidential treatment has previously been granted for portions of this
     exhibit pursuant to an order of the Commission.

+    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
     filed as an exhibit to this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c)
     thereof.

#    Filed herewith.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K. 

     None.


                                       39
<PAGE>   41
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to
be signed on its behalf, by the undersigned thereto duly authorized.

                                  ALTERA CORPORATION


                                  By: /s/ NATHAN SARKISIAN
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                      Nathan Sarkisian
                                      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
                                      Officer

March 30, 1999

                                POWER OF ATTORNEY

     Know all persons by these present, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Nathan Sarkisian, his or her attorney-in-fact,
with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to
sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorney-in-fact, or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              SIGNATURE                              CAPACITY IN WHICH SIGNED                           DATE
              ---------                              ------------------------                           ----
<S>                                <C>                                                             <C>

/s/         RODNEY SMITH           President, Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive         March 30, 1999
- --------------------------------   Officer) and Chairman of the Board of Directors
            Rodney Smith           


/s/       NATHAN SARKISIAN         Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal    March 30, 1999
- --------------------------------   Financial and Accounting Officer)
          Nathan Sarkisian         

/s/       CHARLES M. CLOUGH
- --------------------------------
          Charles M. Clough        Director                                                        March 30, 1999

/s/      MICHAEL A. ELLISON
- --------------------------------
         Michael A. Ellison        Director                                                        March 30, 1999

/s/         PAUL NEWHAGEN
- --------------------------------
            Paul Newhagen          Director                                                        March 30, 1999

/s/        ROBERT W. REED
- --------------------------------
           Robert W. Reed          Director                                                        March 30, 1999

/s/       DEBORAH D. RIEMAN
- --------------------------------
          Deborah D. Rieman        Director                                                        March 30, 1999

/s/       WILLIAM E. TERRY
- --------------------------------
          William E. Terry         Director                                                        March 30, 1999
</TABLE>


                                       40
<PAGE>   42

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT             
NUMBER                                  EXHIBIT
- -------                                 -------

3.1         Certificate of Incorporation filed with the Delaware Secretary of
            State on March 25, 1997 (which became the Certificate of
            Incorporation of the Registrant on June 19, 1997).(15)

3.2         By-laws of the Registrant as adopted May 5, 1997 (which became the
            By-laws of the Registrant on June 19, 1997).(15)

4.1         Specimen copy of certificate for shares of Common Stock of the
            Registrant.(16)

4.2         Indenture Agreement dated as of June 15, 1995 by and between
            Registrant and the First National Bank of Boston, as Trustee.(11)

4.3         Form of Convertible Subordinated Note due 2002.(11)

4.4         First Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 19, 1997 to Indenture
            dated as of June 15, 1995.(15)

10.1*       License Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 with Intel
            Corporation.(9)

10.2*       Supply Agreement dated as of July 12, 1994 with Intel
            Corporation.(9)

10.3(a)+    1987 Stock Option Plan, and forms of Incentive and Nonstatutory
            Stock Option Agreements, as amended March 22, 1995 and as restated
            effective May 10, 1995.(12)

10.4(b)+    1987 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and form of Subscription
            Agreement, as amended May 10, 1995.(12)

10.6*       Technology License and Manufacturing Agreement with Cypress
            Semiconductor Corporation, dated June 19, 1987.(1)

10.6(a)*    Termination Agreement dated November 23, 1993, regarding Technology
            License and Manufacturing Agreement with Cypress Semiconductor
            Corporation.(7)

10.11       Form of Sales Representative Agreement.(1)

10.22*      Advanced Micro Devices, formerly MMI, Settlement Agreement and
            associated Series E Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement and Patent
            License Agreement, all dated March 31, 1987.(1)

10.25       Product Distribution Agreement with Wyle Electronics Marketing
            Group, effective May 16, 1984, as amended.(1)

10.26       Form of Indemnification Agreement entered into with each of the
            Company's officers and directors.(16)

10.30(a)*   Amendment No. 2 to Technology License and Manufacturing Agreement
            with Texas Instruments Incorporated, dated effective October 1,
            1990.(5)

10.31       Product Distribution Agreement with LEX Electronics, Inc., formerly
            Schweber Electronics Corporation effective December 22, 1988, as
            amended.(2)

10.31(a)    Consent to Assignment of Product Distribution Agreement, effective
            September 23, 1991.(6)

10.33(b)+   1988 Director Stock Option Plan and form of Outside Director
            Nonstatutory Stock Option Agreement, as amended January 18, 1995 and
            as restated effective May 10, 1995.(10)

10.35       Master Distribution Agreement with Japan Macnics Corporation dated
            June 26, 1986, as amended effective March 18, 1987.(6)
<PAGE>   43
EXHIBIT             
NUMBER                                  EXHIBIT
- -------                                 -------

10.37       LSI Products Supply Agreement with Sharp Corporation, dated October
            1, 1993.(7)

10.38+      Altera Corporation Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan and Trust
            Agreement dated February 1 1994, and form of Deferred Compensation
            Agreement.(7)

10.39       Wafer Supply Agreement dated June 26, 1995 between Registrant and
            Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(11)

10.40       Option Agreement dated June 26, 1995 between Registrant and Taiwan
            Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(11)

10.41       Memorandum of Intent dated October 1, 1995 between Registrant and
            Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(13)

10.42       Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 1, 1995 to Wafer Supply
            Agreement dated as of June 26, 1995 by and between Registrant and
            Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. And to Option Agreement
            1 dated as of June 26, 1995 between Registrant and Taiwan
            Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(13)

10.43       Option Agreement 2 dated as of October 1, 1995 by and between
            Registrant and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (13)

10.44       Option Agreement 3 dated as of October 1, 1995 by and between
            Registrant and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(13)

10.45(a)+   1996 Stock Option Plan.(13)

10.45(b)+   Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1996 Stock Option Plan.(13)

10.46       Owner/Contractor Agreement for Construction between Registrant and
            Rudolph and Sletten, Inc. dated January 10, 1996.(13)

10.47       Second Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of
            Wafertech, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, dated as of
            October 28, 1997.(16)(17)

10.48       Purchase Agreement by and between Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
            Co., Ltd., as Seller, and Analog Devices, Inc., the Registrant and
            Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc., as Buyers (dated as of June 25,
            1996).(14)

10.49       Rescission (dated as of June 25, 1996) of Option Agreement 1 dated
            as of June 26, 1995 by and between the Registrant and Taiwan
            Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.(14)

10.50       Agreement and Plan of Merger dated June 18, 1997.(15)

#10.51(a)+  1998 Director Stock Option Plan.

#10.51(b)+  Form of Stock Option Agreement under 1998 Director Stock Option
            Plan.

#10.52      Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated as of January 29, 1999,
            by and between Registrant and Analog Devices, Inc.

#11.1       Computation of Earnings per Share (included on page 24).

#13.1       Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31,
            1998 (to be deemed filed only to the extent required by the
            instructions to Exhibits for Reports on Form 10-K).

#21.1       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

#23.1       Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.

#24.1       Power of Attorney (included on page 40).

#27.1       Financial Data Schedule.

- --------------
(1)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 16(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Registration
     Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-17717), as amended, which became
     effective March 29, 1988.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1988.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended March 31, 1990, as amended by a Form 8 filed on July
     13, 1990.
<PAGE>   44
(5)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1990.

(6)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.

(7)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.

(8)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 7, "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 8-K
     dated October 15, 1994 and 8-KA dated December 15, 1994.

(9)  Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended September 30, 1994.

(10) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

(11) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended June 30, 1995.

(12) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 8, "Exhibits," of the registrant's Registration Statement
     on Form S-8 (File No. 33-61085), as amended, which became effective July
     17, 1995.

(13) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.

(14) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.

(15) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 6(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
     for the quarter ended June 30, 1997.

(16) Incorporated by reference to identically numbered exhibits filed in
     response to Item 14(a), "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-K
     for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997.

(17) Exhibits to this document are incorporated by reference to the exhibits to
     the identically numbered document filed in response to Item 6(a),
     "Exhibits," of the registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
     June 30, 1996.

- --------------
*    Confidential treatment has previously been granted for portions of this
     exhibit pursuant to an order of the Commission.

+    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
     filed as an exhibit to this Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Item 14(c)
     thereof.

#    Filed herewith.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.51.(A)
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>1998 DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                EXHIBIT 10.51(A)


                         1998 DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN


     1.   Purposes of the Plan. The purposes of this 1998 Director Stock Option
Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for service as
Outside Directors (as defined herein) of the Company, to provide additional
incentive to the Outside Directors of the Company to serve as Directors, and to
encourage their continued service on the Board.

     All options granted hereunder shall be nonstatutory stock options.

     2.   Definitions. As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:

          (a)  "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

          (b)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

          (c)  "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company.

          (d)  "Company" means Altera Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

          (e)  "Director" means a member of the Board.

          (f)  "Employee" means any person, including officers and Directors,
employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. The payment
of a Director's fee by the Company shall not be sufficient in and of itself to
constitute "employment" by the Company.

          (g)  "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

          (h)  "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of Common
Stock determined as follows:

               (i)  If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock
exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq
National Market or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, its
Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the
closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or system for
the last market trading day prior to the time of determination as reported in
The Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems
reliable;

               (ii) If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized
securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of
a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked
prices for the Common Stock for the last market trading day prior to the time of
determination, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other source as
the Board deems reliable; or

               (iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common
Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the
Board.

          (i)  "Inside Director" means a Director who is an Employee.

          (j)  "Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.

          (k)  "Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to an Option.

          (l)  "Optionee" means a Director who holds an Option.

          (m)  "Outside Director" means a Director who is not an Employee.


<PAGE>   2
          (n)  "Parent" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter
existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.

          (o)  "Plan" means this 1998 Director Stock Option Plan.

          (p)  "Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in
accordance with Section 10 of the Plan.

          (q)  "Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or
hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.

     3.   Stock Subject to the Plan. Subject to the provisions of Section 10 of
the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned and sold
under the Plan is 170,000 Shares of Common Stock (the "Pool"). The Shares may be
authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.

     If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised
in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become
available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has
terminated). Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan shall not be
returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future distribution
under the Plan.

     4.   Administration and Grants of Options under the Plan.

          (a)  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Plan shall be
administered by the Board.

          (b)  Procedure for Grants. All grants of Options to Outside Directors
under this Plan shall be automatic and nondiscretionary and shall be made
strictly in accordance with the following provisions:

               (i)  Except as provided in Section 11(c), no person shall have
any discretion to select which Outside Directors shall be granted Options or to
determine the number of Shares to be covered by Options granted to Outside
Directors.

               (ii) Each Outside Director shall be automatically granted an
Option to purchase 20,000 Shares (the "First Option") on the date on which such
person first becomes an Outside Director, whether through election by the
stockholders of the Company or appointment by the Board to fill a vacancy.

               (iii) Each Outside Director shall be automatically granted an
Option to purchase 5,000 Shares (a "Subsequent Option") on the day of the annual
stockholder meeting at which such Outside Director is reelected to an additional
term; provided, however, that for the first grant of a Subsequent Option (the
"First Subsequent Option"), each Outside Director shall be automatically granted
an Option to purchase the number of Shares equal to 5,000 multiplied by a
fraction, the numerator of which equals the number of whole months (rounded up
to the next whole month) from the date the Outside Director first became an
Outside Director to the date of the annual stockholders' meeting at which the
Outside Director was granted the First Subsequent Option and the denominator of
which equals twelve.

               (iv) The exercise price per Share for all Options granted under
the Plan shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant
of the Option.

               (v)  The terms of a First Option granted hereunder shall be as
follows:

                    (A)  the term of the First Option shall be ten (10) years.

                    (B)  the First Option shall be exercisable only while the
Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in
Sections 8 and 10 hereof.

                    (C)  subject to Section 10 hereof, the First Option shall
become exercisable as to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Shares subject to the
First Option on the first anniversary of its date of grant and as


                                       2
<PAGE>   3
to 1/48th of the Shares subject to the First Option at the end of each month
thereafter, provided that the Optionee continues to serve as a Director on such
dates.

               (vi) The terms of a Subsequent Option granted hereunder shall be
as follows:

                    (A)  the term of the Subsequent Option shall be ten (10)
years.

                    (B)  the Subsequent Option shall be exercisable only while
the Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in
Sections 8 and 10 hereof.

                    (C)  subject to Section 10 hereof, the Subsequent Option
shall vest and become exercisable as to 1/12th of the Shares subject to the
Subsequent Option at the end of each month beginning after all prior Option
grants under the Plan have vested, provided that the Optionee continues to serve
as a Director on such dates. Notwithstanding the prior sentence, the First
Subsequent Option shall vest and become exercisable beginning after the Annual
Option grant made under the Plan has fully vested as to an amount equal to the
number of Shares subject to the First Subsequent Option divided by the number of
whole months (rounded up to the nearest whole month) from the date the Outside
Director first became an Outside Director to the date of the annual
stockholders' meeting at which the Outside Director was granted the First
Subsequent Option.

               (vii) In the event that any Option granted under the Plan would
cause the number of Shares subject to outstanding Options plus the number of
Shares previously purchased under Options to exceed the Pool, then the remaining
Shares available for Option grant shall be granted under Options to the Outside
Directors on a pro rata basis. No further grants shall be made until such time,
if any, as additional Shares become available for grant under the Plan through
action of the Board or the stockholders to increase the number of Shares which
may be issued under the Plan or through cancellation or expiration of Options
previously granted hereunder.

               (viii) Powers of the Board. Subject to the provisions and
restrictions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion:
(i) to determine, upon review of relevant information and in accordance with
Section 2(h) of the Plan, the fair market value of the Common Stock; (ii) to
determine the exercise price per share of Options to be granted, which exercise
price shall be determined in accordance with Section 4(b) of the Plan; (iii) to
interpret the Plan; (iv) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations
relating to the Plan; (v) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the
Company any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option previously
granted hereunder; (vi) to increase or decrease the number of Shares subject to
either the First Option or Subsequent Option pursuant to Section 11(c) herein;
(vii) to increase the length of time an Option remains exercisable after the
termination of an Optionee's status as a Director; and (viii) to make all other
determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.

               (ix) Effect of Board's Decision. All decisions, determinations
and interpretations of the Board shall be final and binding on all Optionees and
any other holders of any Options granted under the Plan.

               (x)  Suspension or Termination of Option. If the President or his
designee reasonably believes that an Optionee has committed an act of
misconduct, the President may suspend the Optionee's right to exercise any
option pending a determination by the Board of Directors (excluding the Outside
Director accused of such misconduct). If the Board of Directors (excluding the
Outside Director accused of such misconduct) determines an Optionee has
committed an act of embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty, nonpayment of an obligation
owed to the Company, breach of fiduciary duty or deliberate disregard of the
Company rules resulting in loss, damage or injury to the Company, or if an
Optionee makes an unauthorized disclosure of any Company trade secret or
confidential information, engages in any conduct constituting unfair
competition, induces any Company customer to breach a contract with the Company
or induces any principal for whom the Company acts as agent to terminate such
agency relationship, neither the Optionee nor his estate shall be entitled to
exercise any option whatsoever. In making such determination, the Board of
Directors (excluding the Outside Director accused of such misconduct) shall act
fairly and shall give the Optionee an opportunity to appear and present evidence
on Optionee's behalf at a hearing before a committee of the Board.

     5.   Eligibility. Options may be granted only to Outside Directors. All
Options shall be automatically granted in accordance with the terms set forth in
Section 4 hereof.


                                       3
<PAGE>   4
     The Plan shall not confer upon any Optionee any right with respect to
continuation of service as a Director or nomination to serve as a Director, nor
shall it interfere in any way with any rights which the Director or the Company
may have to terminate the Director's relationship with the Company at any time.

     6.   Term of Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to
occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval by the stockholders of the
Company as described in Section 16 of the Plan. It shall continue in effect
until terminated under Section 11 of the Plan.

     7.   Form of Consideration. The consideration to be paid for the Shares to
be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall
consist of (i) cash, (ii) check, (iii) other shares which (x) in the case of
Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option, have been owned by the Optionee for
more than six (6) months on the date of surrender, and (y) have a Fair Market
Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the
Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised, (iv) consideration received
by the Company under a cashless exercise program implemented by the Company in
connection with the Plan, or (v) any combination of the foregoing methods of
payment.

     8.   Exercise of Option.

          (a)  Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder. Any Option
granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times as are set forth in Section
4 hereof; provided, however, that no Options shall be exercisable until
stockholder approval of the Plan in accordance with Section 16 hereof has been
obtained.

          An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

     An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such
exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the
Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option and full payment for the
Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the
Company. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment
allowable under Section 7 of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the
appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer
agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right
to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist
with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option.
A share certificate for the number of Shares so acquired shall be issued to the
Optionee as soon as practicable after exercise of the Option. No adjustment
shall be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior
to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 10 of
the Plan.

     Exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the
number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the
Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the
Option is exercised.

          (b)  Termination of Continuous Status as a Director. Subject to
Section 10 hereof, in the event an Optionee's status as a Director terminates
(other than upon the Optionee's death or total and permanent disability (as
defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code)), the Optionee may exercise his or her
Option, but only within three (3) months (or such other period of time
determined by the Board at the time of grant) following the date of such
termination, and only to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise
it on the date of such termination (but in no event later than the expiration of
its ten (10) year term); provided, however, that in the event that a sale of the
Option Stock received upon exercise of this Option would subject the Director to
liability under Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, then the Option will terminate on the earlier of (i) the fifteenth day
after the last date upon which such sale would result in liability, or (ii) two
hundred ten (210) days following the date of such termination of status as a
Director. To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise an Option
on the date of such termination, and to the extent that the Optionee does not
exercise such Option (to the extent otherwise so entitled) within the time
specified herein, the Option shall terminate.

          (c)  Disability of Optionee. In the event Optionee's status as a
Director terminates as a result of total and permanent disability (as defined in
Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), the Optionee may exercise his or her Option, but
only within three (3) months following the date of such termination, and only to
the extent that the Optionee was 


                                       4
<PAGE>   5
entitled to exercise it on the date of such termination (but in no event later
than the expiration of its ten (10) year term). To the extent that the Optionee
was not entitled to exercise an Option on the date of termination, or if he or
she does not exercise such Option (to the extent otherwise so entitled) within
the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.

          (d)  Death of Optionee. In the event of the death of an Optionee:

               (i)  during the term of the Option who is at the time of his
death a Director of the Company and who shall have been in Continuous Status as
a Director since the date of grant of the Option, the Option may be exercised,
at any time within six (6) months following the date of death (but in no event
later than the expiration of the Option's term), by the Optionee's estate or by
a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or
inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that would have
accrued had the Optionee continued living and remained in Continuous Status a
Director for six (6) months after the date of death.

               (ii) within thirty (30) days after the termination of Continuous
Status as a Director, the Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6)
months following the date of death (but in no event later than the expiration of
the Option's term), by the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the
right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent
of the right to exercise that had accrued at the date of termination.

     9.   Non-Transferability of Options. The Option may not be sold, pledged,
assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by
will or by the laws of descent or distribution or pursuant to a qualified
domestic relations order as defined by the Code, Title I of the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder. An Option may be
exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee.

     10.  Adjustments Upon changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or
Asset Sale. 

          (a)  Changes in Capitalization. Subject to any required action by the
stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding
Option, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the
Plan but as to which no Options have yet been granted or which have been
returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option, as well as
the price per Share covered by each such outstanding Option, shall be
proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued
Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend,
combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or
decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of
consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any
convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected
without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no
issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities
convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment
by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares
subject to an Option.

          (b)  Dissolution or Liquidation. In the event of the proposed
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, to the extent that an Option has not
been previously exercised, it shall terminate immediately prior to the
consummation of such proposed action. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole
discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall terminate as of a
date fixed by the Board and give each Optionee the right to exercise his or her
Option as to all or any part of the Optioned Stock including Shares as to which
the Option would not otherwise be exercisable.

          (c)  Merger or Asset Sale. In the event of a merger of the Company
with or into another corporation or the sale of substantially all of the assets
of the Company, outstanding Options may be assumed or equivalent options may be
substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary thereof (the
"Successor Corporation"). If an Option is assumed or substituted for, the Option
or equivalent option shall continue to be exercisable as provided in Section 4
hereof for so long as the Optionee serves as a Director or a director of the
Successor Corporation. Following such assumption or substitution, if the
Optionee's status as a Director or director of the Successor Corporation, as
applicable, is terminated other than upon a voluntary resignation by the
Optionee, the Option or equivalent option shall become fully exercisable,
including as to Shares for which it would not 


                                       5
<PAGE>   6
otherwise be exercisable. Thereafter, the Option or equivalent option shall
remain exercisable in accordance with Sections 8(b) through (d) above.

     If the Successor Corporation does not assume an outstanding Option or
substitute for it an equivalent option, the Option shall become fully vested and
exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be
exercisable. In such event the Board shall notify the Optionee that the Option
shall be fully exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
such notice, and upon the expiration of such period the Option shall terminate.

     For the purposes of this Section 10(c), an Option shall be considered
assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets, the Option confers the right
to purchase or receive, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option
immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets, the consideration (whether
stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or sale of
assets by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of
the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type
of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares).
If such consideration received in the merger or sale of assets is not solely
common stock of the Successor Corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may,
with the consent of the Successor Corporation, provide for the consideration to
be received upon the exercise of the Option, for each Share of Optioned Stock
subject to the Option, to be solely common stock of the Successor Corporation or
its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by
holders of Common Stock in the merger or sale of assets.

     11.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.

          (a)  Amendment and Termination. The Board may at any time amend,
alter, suspend, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration,
suspension, or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the rights of
any Optionee under any grant theretofore made, without his or her consent. In
addition, to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with any applicable
law, regulation or stock exchange rule, the Company shall obtain stockholder
approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required
including any increase in the number of Shares subject to the Plan, other than
in connection with an adjustment under Section 10(a) of the Plan.

          (b)  Effect of Amendment or Termination. Any such amendment or
termination of the Plan shall not affect Options already granted and such
Options shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been
amended or terminated.

          (c)  Adjustment of First and Subsequent Options. The Board may, at any
time, amend the Plan to increase or decrease the number of Shares subject to
either the First Option or the Subsequent Option without obtaining stockholder
approval.

     12.  Time of Granting Options. The date of grant of an Option shall, for
all purposes, be the date determined in accordance with Section 4 hereof.

     13.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares. Shares shall not be issued
pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the
issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all
relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of
1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder, state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange
upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the
approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.

     As a condition to the exercise of an Option, the Company may require the
person exercising such Option to represent and warrant at the time of any such
exercise that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any
present intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of
counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the
aforementioned relevant provisions of law.

     Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body
having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be
necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall 


                                       6
<PAGE>   7
relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell
such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.

     14.  Reservation of Shares. The Company, during the term of this Plan, will
at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

     15.  Option Agreement. Options shall be evidenced by written option
agreements in such form as the Board shall approve.

     16.  Stockholder Approval. The Plan shall be subject to approval by the
stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months after the date the Plan is
adopted. Such stockholder approval shall be obtained in the degree and manner
required under applicable state and federal law and any stock exchange rules.


                                       7
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.51.(B)
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>FORM OF STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                EXHIBIT 10.51(B)


                         1998 DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN
                             STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT


Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the Plan shall have the
same Defined meanings in this Option Agreement.

     1.   NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT


You have been granted an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company, subject
to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement, as follows:

Grant Number                                    __________

Date of Grant                                   __________

Vesting Commencement Date                       __________

Exercise Price per Share                        __________

Total Number of Shares Granted                  __________

Total Exercise Price                            __________

Type of Option                                  __________

Expiration Date                                 __________


     2.   VESTING SCHEDULE. Shares in each period will become fully vested on
the date shown (see Section 3).


     Shares         Vesting Type         Start Vest Date        Full Vest Date


Agreed to subject to all of the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement
and of the 1998 Director Stock Option Plan, and conditioned upon due and valid
execution of this Option Agreement by the Optionee.


OPTIONEE:                                ALTERA CORPORATION
                                         By:
                                         Title:  Vice President


                                       1
<PAGE>   2
     3.   Exercise of Option. This Option shall be exercisable during its term
in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 of the Plan as follows:

          (i)  Right to Exercise.

               (a)  Subject to subsections 3(i)(b), (c) and (d) below, this
Option shall be exercisable in installments cumulatively with respect to 8.34%
of the shares for each month beginning after the Optionee's First Option is
fully vested or, in the event that any previously granted Subsequent Options are
outstanding at the time this Option is granted, following the complete vesting
of any Subsequent Option previously granted.

               (b)  This Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a share.

               (c)  In the event of Optionee's death, disability or other
termination of employment or consulting relationship, the exercisability of the
Option is governed by Sections 7, 8 and 9 below.

               (d)  In no event may this Option be exercised after the date of
expiration of the term of this Option as set forth in Section 11 below.

          (ii) Method of Exercise. This Option shall be exercisable by written
notice which shall state the election to exercise the Option, the number of
Shares in respect of which the Option is being exercised, and such other
representations and agreements as to the holder's investment intent with respect
to such shares of Common Stock as may be required by the Company pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan. Such written notice shall be signed by the Optionee and
shall be delivered in person or by certified mail to the Secretary of the
Company. The written notice shall be accompanied by payment of the exercise
price. This Option shall be deemed exercised upon receipt by the Company of such
written notice accompanied by the exercise price.

         No Shares will be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless
such issuance and such exercise shall comply with all relevant provisions of law
and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be
listed. Assuming such compliance, for income tax purposes the Shares shall be
considered transferred to the Optionee on the date on which the Option is
exercised with respect to such Shares.

     4.   Optionee's Representations. In the event the Shares purchasable
pursuant to the exercise of this Option have not been registered under the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, at the time this Option is exercised,
Optionee shall, concurrently with the exercise of all or any portion of this
Option, deliver to the Company his Investment Representation Statement in the
form acceptable to the Company.

     5.   Method of Payment. Payment of the exercise price shall be by any of
the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Board:

          (i)  cash;

          (ii) check; or

          (iii) surrender of other shares of Common Stock of the Company of a
value equal to the exercise price of the Shares as to which the Option is being
exercised.

     6.   Restrictions on Exercise. This Option may not be exercised until such
time as the Plan has been approved by the shareholders of the Company, or if the
issuance of such Shares upon such exercise or the method of payment of
consideration for such shares would constitute a violation of any applicable
federal or state securities or other law or regulation, including any rule under
Part 207 of Title 12 of the Code of 


                                       2
<PAGE>   3
Federal Regulations ("Regulation G") as promulgated by the Federal Reserve
Board. As a condition to the exercise of this Option, the Company may require
Optionee to make any representation and warranty to the Company as may be
required by any applicable law or regulation.

     7.   Termination of Status as a Director. In the event of the termination
of the Outside Director's Continuous Status as a Director, he/she may, but only
within thirty (30) days after the date of such termination (but in no event
later than the date of expiration of the term of this Option as set forth in
Section 11 below), exercise this Option to the extent that he was entitled to
exercise it at the date of such termination. To the extent that he/she was not
entitled to exercise this Option at the date of such termination, or if he/she
does not exercise this Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall
terminate.

     8.   Disability of Optionee. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 7
above, in the event of termination of Optionee's Continuous Status as a Director
as a result of his total and permanent disability (as defined in Section
22(e)(3) of the Code), he/she may, but only within three (3) months from the
date of such termination (but in no event later than the date of expiration of
the term of this Option as set forth in Section 11 below), exercise his Option
to the extent he/she was entitled to exercise it at the date of such
termination. To the extent that he/she was not entitled to exercise the Option
at the date of termination, or if he/she does not exercise such Option (which
he/she was entitled to exercise) within the time specified herein, the Option
shall terminate.

     9.   Death of Optionee. In the event of the death of Optionee:

          (i)  during the term of this Option and while a Director of the
Company and having been in Continuous Status as a Director since the date of
grant of the Option, the Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6)
months following the date of death (but in no event later than the date of
expiration of the term of this Option as set forth in Section 11 below), by
Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option
by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that
would have accrued had Optionee continued living and remained in Continuous
Status as a Director six (6) months after the date of death; or

          (ii) within thirty (30) days after the termination of Optionee's
Continuous Status as a Director, the Option may be exercised, at any time within
six (6) months following the date of death (but in no event later than the date
of expiration of the term of this Option as set forth in Section 11 below), by
Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option
by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that
had accrued at the date of termination.

     10.  Non-Transferability of Option. This Option may not be transferred in
any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may
be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by him. The terms of this
Option shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, successors
and assigns of the Optionee.

     11.  Term of Option. This Option may not be exercised more than ten (10)
years from the date of grant of this Option, and may be exercised during such
term only in accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option.

     12.  Taxation Upon Exercise of Option. Optionee understands that, upon
exercise of this Option, he/she will recognize income for tax purposes in an
amount equal to the excess of the then fair market value of the shares over the
exercise price. The Company may require the Optionee to make a cash payment to
cover any applicable withholding tax liability as a condition of exercise of
this Option. Upon a resale of such shares by the Optionee, any difference
between the sale price and the fair market value of the shares on the date of
exercise of the Option will be treated as capital gain or loss.

     OPTIONEE ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THE VESTING OF SHARES PURSUANT TO
SECTION 3 HEREOF IS EARNED ONLY BY CONTINUING SERVICE AS A DIRECTOR. OPTIONEE


                                       3
<PAGE>   4
FURTHER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT THIS OPTION, THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED
HEREUNDER AND THE VESTING SCHEDULE SET FORTH HEREIN DO NOT CONSTITUTE AN EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED PROMISE OF CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT AS A DIRECTOR FOR THE VESTING PERIOD,
FOR ANY PERIOD, OR AT ALL.

     By your signature and the signature of the Company's representative on page
one of this Option Agreement, Optionee acknowledges receipt of a copy of the
Plan and certain information related thereto and represents that he/she is
familiar with the terms and provisions thereof, and hereby accepts this Option
subject to all of the terms and provisions thereof. Optionee has reviewed the
Plan and this Option in their entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the
advice of counsel prior to executing this Option and fully understands all
provisions of the Option. Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding,
conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any
questions arising under the Plan.


                                       4
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.52
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.52


                                 WAFERTECH, LLC

                       ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT



     THIS ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT is made as of January 21, 1999 by
and between Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation ("ADI"), and
Altera Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Altera").

     WHEREAS, ADI and Altera are members of WaferTech, LLC, a Delaware limited
liability company (the "Company"), and parties to the Second Amended and
Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement of WaferTech, LLC dated as of
October 28, 1997 (the "LLC Agreement");

     WHEREAS, ADI proposes to transfer to Altera a Five Percent (5%) Membership
Interest in the Company, corresponding to Eleven Million Two Hundred Fifty
Thousand (11,250,000) Preferred Shares (the "Interest");

     WHEREAS, the Preferred Members have unanimously consented to the transfer
of the Interest by ADI to Altera pursuant to a Unanimous Written Consent dated
November 30, 1998;

     NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as
follows:

     1.   Capitalized Terms

          Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the
meanings assigned to them in the LLC Agreement.

     2.   Assignment and Assumption

          In consideration of (i) the payment of the purchase price in the
amount of Thirty-Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Six Hundred Forty United
States Dollars (U.S.$37,500,640) (the "Purchase Price") by Altera to ADI as
provided herein and (ii) the assumption by Altera of the obligations associated
with the Interest as set forth in the LLC Agreement and Purchase Agreement, ADI
hereby irrevocably assigns, transfers and conveys to Altera all right, title and
interest in and to, and all benefits and burdens of the ownership of, the
Interest. Altera hereby assumes the obligations associated with the Interest as
set forth in the LLC Agreement and Purchase Agreement.


<PAGE>   2
     3.   Payment

          Altera shall pay the Purchase Price to ADI by the transfer of
immediately available funds denominated in U.S. dollars for value before 2:00
p.m. EST January 29, 1999 to the following account:

                      Analog Devices, Inc.
                      BankBoston
                      Boston, Massachusetts
                      Account No.  521-79901
                      ABA No. 011-000-390

The assignment and assumption contemplated by Section 2 of this Agreement shall
become effective immediately upon receipt by ADI of the full amount of the
Purchase Price in the abovementioned account. Upon receipt of the Purchase
Price, ADI shall deliver to Altera a written receipt therefor in the form of
Exhibit A attached hereto.

     4.   ADI's Representations and Warranties.

          ADI hereby represents and warrants to Altera that:

          (i)  ADI has the full right, power, and authority to execute this
Agreement and to sell the Interest to Altera.

          (ii) The Interest is owned by ADI free and clear of any and all liens,
encumbrances, charges, assessments and restrictions (other than restrictions on
transfer imposed by the LLC Agreement and restrictions on transfer generally
imposed on securities under Federal or state securities laws).

          (iii) Upon transfer of the Interest to Altera pursuant to this
Agreement, Altera will, as a result, receive good title to the Interest, free
and clear of any and all liens, encumbrances, claims, charges, assessments, and
restrictions (other than restrictions on transfer imposed by the LLC Agreement
and restrictions on transfer generally imposed on securities under Federal or
state securities laws).

          (iv) All corporate action on the part of ADI, its directors and
stockholders necessary for the authorization, execution, delivery and
performance by ADI of this Agreement has been taken.

          (v)  The execution, delivery and performance of and compliance with
this Agreement and the sale of the Interest hereunder will not result in any
violation of, or conflict with, or constitute a default under, ADI's charter or
bylaws or any of ADI's material agreements 


                                       -2-
<PAGE>   3
(including but not limited to the LLC Agreement), or result in the creation of
any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or charge upon the Interest being
transferred.

          (vi) No consent, approval or authorization of, or designation,
declaration or filing with, any governmental authority on the part of ADI is
required in connection with the valid execution and delivery of this Agreement,
the sale of the Interest hereunder or the consummation of any other transaction
contemplated hereby.

          (vii) (a) ADI has consulted its own independent tax advisors with
respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to the extent it
deemed necessary and advisable; (b) ADI is not relying in any respect on
WaferTech or any Managing Member, employee or other agent or representative of
WaferTech to provide any advice with respect to the Federal, state, local or
foreign tax consequences of the transactions contemplated hereby; and (c) ADI
shall bear its own tax consequences, if any, associated with the transactions
contemplated hereby and shall not seek any reimbursement in connection with any
such tax consequences from Altera, WaferTech or any of their affiliates.

     5.   Altera's Representations and Warranties.

          Altera hereby represents and warrants to ADI that:

          (i)  Altera has the full right, power, and authority to execute this
Agreement and to purchase the Interest from ADI.

          (ii) Altera understands and acknowledges that any further transfer of
the Interest by Altera is restricted under the LLC Agreement.

          (iii) Altera is acquiring the Interest for its own account for
investment, and not with a view to distribution.

     6.   Effect on Ancillary Agreements.

          The parties acknowledge and agree that the transfer of the Interest
pursuant to this Agreement will affect the Percentage Interests of ADI and
Altera and, consequently, their respective rights and obligations under the
Purchase Agreement, as well as their respective rights and obligations under the
LLC Agreement, including under Section 19.2 thereof with respect to Future
Purchase Agreements.


                                       -3-
<PAGE>   4
     7.   Miscellaneous.

          (a)  Further Assurances. Each of the parties agrees to promptly
execute and deliver any and all further agreements, documents, or instruments
necessary to effectuate this Agreement and the transaction referred to herein or
reasonably requested by the other party to perfect or evidence its rights
hereunder.

          (b)  Survival of Representations and Warranties. The representations
and warranties contained in this Agreement shall survive the transfer of the
Interest made pursuant to this Agreement.

          (c)  Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or more
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which taken
together shall constitute one and the same instrument, binding on the parties,
and the signature of any party to any counterpart shall be deemed a signature
to, and may be appended to, any other counterpart.

          (d)  Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed
in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date
set forth above.

                                       ANALOG DEVICES, INC.



                                       By: /s/ Joseph E. McDonough       
                                           -------------------------------------
                                       Name Joseph E. McDonough  
                                            ------------------------------------
                                       Its V.P. Finance, C.F.O.            
                                           -------------------------------------


                                       ALTERA CORPORATION


                                       By: /s/ Nathan M. Sarkisian              
                                           -------------------------------------
                                       Name Nathan M. Sarkisian            
                                            ------------------------------------
                                       Its Senior V.P. & C.F.O.            
                                           -------------------------------------


                                      -4-
<PAGE>   5
                                                                       Exhibit A


                                     RECEIPT


     Analog Devices, Inc. ("ADI") hereby acknowledges receipt of the sum of
Thirty-Seven Million Five Hundred Thousand Six Hundred Forty United States
Dollars (U.S$37,500,640) from Altera Corporation ("Altera") constituting full
payment of the purchase price payable under the Assignment and Assumption
Agreement between ADI and Altera dated as of January 21, 1999. Accordingly the
transfer of the Interest contemplated by the aforesaid Assignment and Assumption
Agreement is effective as of the date hereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Receipt has been executed as of the date set forth
below.


Date:  January 29, 1999                ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


                                       By: /s/ Joseph E. McDonough        
                                           -------------------------------------
                                       Name Joseph E. McDonough           
                                            ------------------------------------
                                       Its V.P. Finance, C.F.O.          
                                           -------------------------------------


                                      -5-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS FOR FYE 12/31/1998
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.1

                             ABOUT YOUR INVESTMENT

Stock Ownership Profile

The Company estimates that at December 31, 1998, there were more than 36,000
holders of Altera stock.

Stock Price

Altera's initial public offering took place on March 31, 1988. The Company's
price-to-earnings ratio at each year-end for the last five years, was as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
1994   1995   1996   1997   1998
- ----   ----   ----   ----   ----
<S>    <C>    <C>    <C>    <C>
26.2   26.2   29.6   21.4   39.0
</TABLE>

Excludes R&D in-process write-off associated with the acquisition of Intel's
programmable logic business in 1994 and the cumulative effect of change in
accounting principle in 1997.

Trading Volume

The average trading volume in the Company's stock decreased 7% in 1998 over
1997, as measured by Nasdaq. Trading volume in 1998 averaged 2.6 million shares
per day, compared to 2.8 million per day in 1997, and 4.4 million in 1996,
retroactively adjusted for 2-for-1 splits of the Company's common stock in the
second quarter of 1995 and the fourth quarter of 1996.

         Officers, Directors            Institutional Investors 80%
           & Employees 5%               Individuals 15%

                                  [Pie Chart]


                           Estimated Stock Ownership

                                    [Graph]


                         Comparative Stock Performance

                                  [Bar Graph]


                          Average Daily Trading Volume


<PAGE>   2
                      SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY                                                       YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
(in thousands, except per share amounts)                               1998          1997         1996         1995         1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Statements of Operations Data:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                 <C>            <C>          <C>           <C>         <C>
Sales                                                               $  654,342     $631,114     $497,306     $401,598    $198,796
Cost of sales                                                          249,474      236,958      191,958      158,808      77,672
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Gross profit                                                           404,868      394,156      305,348      242,790     121,124
Research and development expenses                                       59,864       54,417       49,513       33,849      45,994
Selling, general and administrative expenses                           113,161      112,784       87,742       74,658      45,771
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Income from operations                                              $  231,843     $226,955     $168,093     $134,283    $ 29,359
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes, equity investment and cumulative
  effect of change in accounting principle                          $  244,183     $229,571     $169,137     $137,891    $ 31,496
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Income before equity investment and cumulative effect of
  change in accounting principle                                    $  164,827     $151,517     $109,135     $ 86,871    $ 14,608
Equity in loss of WaferTech, LLC                                        10,440           --           --           --          --
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Income before cumulative effect of change in accounting
  principle                                                            154,387      151,517      109,135       86,871      14,608
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle                         --       18,064           --           --          --
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                          $  154,387     $133,453     $109,135     $ 86,871     $14,608
                                                                    ----------------------------------------------------------------
Income per share before cumulative effect of change in
  accounting principle:
    Basic                                                           $     1.65     $   1.71     $   1.25     $   1.00     $  0.18
    Diluted                                                               1.56         1.55         1.16         0.95        0.17
Net income per share:
    Basic                                                           $     1.65     $   1.51     $   1.25     $   1.00     $  0.18
    Diluted                                                               1.56         1.37         1.16         0.95        0.17
Shares used in computing income per share:
    Basic                                                               93,493       88,525       87,406       86,625      83,253
    Diluted                                                            101,589      102,616      100,813       95,931      86,490

Balance Sheet Data:
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Working capital                                                     $  587,923     $430,371     $295,020     $346,242    $121,479
Total assets                                                         1,093,331      952,518      778,212      715,554     213,882
Long-term debt                                                              --      230,000      230,000      288,600          --
Stockholders' equity                                                   881,721      536,687      370,245      255,189     158,019
Book value per share                                                      9.03         6.02         4.23         2.93        1.84




                                                 [FOUR BAR GRAPHS]  


(Dollars in millions)        (percentage of sales)        (percentage of sales)             (dollars in millions)
R&D In-Process Charge
- ------------------------   ------------------------      ------------------------      ------------------------------
    RESEARCH AND                    GROSS                         SG&A                          INCOME FROM 
    DEVELOPMENT                    MARGIN                                                        OPERATIONS
- ------------------------   ------------------------      ------------------------      ------------------------------





</TABLE>
<PAGE>   3
<TABLE>
<S>                                             <C>                                     <C>
CORPORATE DIRECTORY

Board of Directors                              Corporate Officers                      Corporate Headquarters          
Rodney Smith                                    Rodney Smith                            101 Innovation Drive
Chairman, President, and                        President and Chief Executive Officer   San Jose, California 95134
Chief Executive Officer                                                                 (408) 544-7000             
Altera Corporation                              C. Wendell Bergere                                                
                                                Vice President, General Counsel,        Independent Accountants             
Charles M. Clough                               and Secretary                           PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP             
Former Chairman, President, and                                                         San Jose, California
Chief Executive Officer                         Denis Berian                                         
Wyle Electronics                                Executive Vice President and            Stock Listing
                                                Chief Operating Officer                 Altera's common stock trades on
Michael A. Ellison                                                                      The Nasdaq Stock Market(R) under
Chief Executive Officer                         Erik R. Cleage                          the symbol "ALTR".
Steller, Inc.                                   Vice President, Marketing
                                                                                        For the past two years, the quarterly  
Paul Newhagen                                   John R. Fitzhenry                       high and low closing sales prices for
Former Vice President,                          Vice President, Human Resources         the common stock were:
Administration
Altera Corporation                              Nathan Sarkisian                                    1998        1997    
                                                Senior Vice President and               ------------------------------------------
Robert W. Reed                                  Chief Financial Officer                  Quarter  High     Low      High     Low
Former Senior Vice President                                                            ------------------------------------------
Intel Corporation                               Peter Smyth                             First    44-1/4   28-3/4   48-1/8  35-7/8
                                                Vice President, Sales                   Second   44-5/8   28-1/4   54      42-1/16
William E. Terry                                                                        Third    43       29       64-7/8  49-3/8  
Former Director and                                                                     Fourth   61-7/8   29-1/2   53-3/4  30-9/16
Executive Vice President
Hewlett-Packard Company
                                                                                        Registar/Transfer Agent 
Deborah Rieman, Ph.D.                                                                   BankBoston, NA 
President and Chief Executive Officer                                                   c/o EquiServe 
CheckPoint Software Technologies, Inc.                                                  P.O. Box 8040 
                                                                                        Boston, MA 02266-8040 
Appointed Officers                                                                      (800) 730-6001 
Bahram Ahanin                                   Bruce Mielke                            www.equiserve.com 
Vice President, CAD and                         Vice President, Product Engineering
Design Automation                                                                       WEB SITE
                                                Thomas B. Murchie                       For current information on Altera
Melonie C. Brophy                               Vice President, Operations              Corporation, visit our web site at
Vice President, Finance,                                                                http://www.altera.com.
and Treasurer                                   Timothy J. Propeck
                                                Vice President, North America Sales     ADDITIONAL INFORMATION  
Donald Faria                                                                            Please direct all requests to:  
Vice President, Customer Marketing              Timothy J. Southgate                    Investor Relations
and Applications                                Vice President, Software Engineering    101 Innovation Drive  
                                                                                        San Jose, California 95134  
Frank L. Hannig                                 Clifton S. Tong                         (408) 544-7707  
Vice President and                              Vice President, Product Marketing
Chief Information Officer                                                               Earnings releases may be requested  
                                                Nigel Toon                              from Altera's Fax-on-Demand service  
Lance M. Lissner                                Vice President and                      at (800) 789-2587 in the United States  
Vice President, Business                        Managing Director -- Europe             and Canada and at (408) 894-0466
Development and Investor Relations                                                      from other international locations.  
                                                John E. Turner
                                                Vice President, Design Engineering
</TABLE>

Copyright (c) 1999 Altera Corporation, Altera, The Programmable Solutions 
Company, APEX 20K, FLEX, FLEX 10K, FLEX 10KA, FLEX 10KE, FLEX 8000, FLEX 6000, 
MAX, MAX 9000, MAX 9000A, MAX 7000, MAX 7000S, MAX 7000A, MAX 7000B, MAX 5000, 
Classic, FLASHlogic, Quartus, MAX+PLUS II, MegaCore, AMPP, 
System-on-a-Programmable-Chip, and individual device designations are 
trademarks and/or service marks of Altera Corporation in the United States and 
other countries. Altera Corporation acknowledges the trademarks of other 
organizations for their respective products or services mentioned in this 
document. All rights reserved.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                JURISDICTION             YEAR
             NAME                             OF INCORPORATION         ORGANIZED
             ----                             ----------------         ---------
<S>                                           <C>                      <C> 
Altera GmbH                                   Germany                    1989
Altera Foreign Sales Corporation              Barbados                   1989
Nihon Altera KK                               Japan                      1990
Altera France SARL                            France                     1990
Altera Italia s.r.l.                          Italy                      1991
Altera (UK) Limited                           United Kingdom             1992
Altera Corporation (M) Sdn Bhd                Malaysia                   1995
Altera B.V.B.A.                               Belgium                    1996
Altera AB                                     Sweden                     1996
Altera International, Inc.                    Cayman Islands             1997
Altera International Limited                  Hong Kong                  1997
Altera Taiwan Co., Ltd.                       Taiwan                     1997
</TABLE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1


                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (No. 33-22877, No. 33-37159, No. 33-57350, No. 33-61085,
No. 333-06859, No. 333-32555 and No. 333-62917) of Altera Corporation of our
report dated January 19, 1999 appearing on page 33 of this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California
March 26, 1999


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1998
<PERIOD-START>                             JAN-01-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1998
<CASH>                                         131,029
<SECURITIES>                                   448,077
<RECEIVABLES>                                   56,138
<ALLOWANCES>                                     8,007
<INVENTORY>                                     69,869
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               799,533
<PP&E>                                         227,636
<DEPRECIATION>                                  75,316
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               1,093,331
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          211,610
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                            98
<OTHER-SE>                                     881,623
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 1,093,331
<SALES>                                        654,342
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               654,342
<CGS>                                          249,474
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  249,474
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               173,025
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                               6,362
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                244,183
<INCOME-TAX>                                    79,356
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            154,387
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   154,387
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     1.65<F1>
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.56
<FN>
<F1>For purposes of this Exhibit, Primary means Basic.
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
