-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LXrgGedBYWJ/Pt9BOAri8YdjPvNa6/LF3E6KoZXHlRldbop9jjKW1DfU/CAmXGJl
 4aEvWMiJmH5xBCyu1DqYZg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000929624-00-000548.txt : 20000417
<SEC-HEADER>0000929624-00-000548.hdr.sgml : 20000417
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000929624-00-000548
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20000131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000414

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AUTODESK INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000769397
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				942819853
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14338
		FILM NUMBER:		602112

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		111 MCINNIS PKWY
		CITY:			SAN RAFAEL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94903
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4155075000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		111 MCINNIS PKWY
		CITY:			SAN RAFAEL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94903
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K405
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

================================================================================

                                 UNITED STATES

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

 X         Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
- ---
           Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2000

           Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
- ---
           Exchange Act of 1934

Commission File Number: 0-14338

                                AUTODESK, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Delaware                                            94-2819853
 (State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. employer
 incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)

 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California                      94903
   (Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 507-5000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                     Name of each exchange
    Title of each class                               on which registered
    -------------------                              ----------------------
          None                                               None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                         Common Stock, $0.01 par value
                               (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                              Yes  [X]   No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting Common Stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock on April
3, 2000 as reported on the NASDAQ National Market, was approximately $2.0
billion. Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by each
person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in
that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of
affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes.

As of April 3, 2000, Registrant had outstanding approximately 62.0 million
shares of Common Stock.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Proxy Statement for Registrant's Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held June 22, 2000 are incorporated by reference in Part III.

================================================================================
<PAGE>

                                    PART I

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

The forward-looking statements included in this report, which reflect
management's best judgment based on factors currently known, involve risks and
uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in
the forward-looking statements included herein as a result of a number of
factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

Autodesk was incorporated in California in April 1982 and was reincorporated in
Delaware in May 1994. Autodesk's two-dimensional, or 2D, and three-dimensional,
or 3D, products are used across industries and in the home for architectural
design, mechanical design, spatial data management and mapping, animation, and
visualization applications. Autodesk's flagship product, AutoCAD(R), is one of
the world's leading computer-aided design, or CAD, tools, with an installed base
of more than 2.5 million units worldwide. Autodesk's software products are sold
worldwide, primarily through a network of resellers and distributors.

In March 1999, Autodesk acquired Discreet Logic Inc. in a business combination
accounted for as a pooling of interests. The Discreet Division develops,
assembles, markets and supports nonlinear digital systems and software for
creating, editing and compositing imagery. The Discreet Division's products are
used extensively in film and video postproduction, games and multimedia,
broadcasters' graphics, programming and on-air event coverage, as well as by
designers and architects for 3D visualization and conceptualization.

During the second quarter of fiscal 2000, Autodesk reorganized its operations
into four business divisions with industry-specific charters: the Design
Solutions Division (consisting primarily of the Mechanical Computer-Aided
Design, or MCAD, and Architecture, Engineering and Construction, or AEC, market
groups and most of the Personal Solutions Group), the Geographic Information
Systems Solutions, or GIS, Division, Autodesk Ventures and the Discreet Division
(consisting of the Kinetix(R) and Discreet businesses). Autodesk's operating
results have been aggregated into two reportable segments: the Discreet Segment
and the Design Solutions Segment, which includes GIS and Autodesk Ventures. The
Design Solutions and GIS divisions have similar production processes, customer
types and distribution methods. Autodesk Ventures' segment information is not
material.

The Design Solutions Segment develops and sells design software products for
professionals, occasional users or consumers who design, draft and diagram. The
end users of the design software products include architects, engineers,
construction firms, designers and drafters. The Discreet Segment derives
revenues from the sale of its products to creative professionals for a variety
of applications, including feature films, television programs, commercials,
music and corporate videos, interactive game production, live broadcasting and
Web design. Both segments primarily distribute their respective products through
authorized resellers and distributors, and, in some cases, they also sell their
products directly to end-users.

PRODUCTS

The principal product offerings from the Design Solutions Segment are described
below:

AutoCAD
AutoCAD software is a general-purpose CAD tool used independently and in
conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction
and manufacturing to process plant design and mapping. Professionals utilize
AutoCAD for design, modeling, drafting, mapping, rendering and facility
management

                                       2
<PAGE>

tasks. AutoCAD currently runs on Microsoft Windows 95, Windows 98 and Windows NT
for Intel and Intel-compatible hardware platforms.

AutoCAD 2000 was introduced in April 1999. Built as a platform for efficiently
connecting design teams, AutoCAD 2000 includes enhancements in areas that
influence team and individual productivity, including: 3D visualization and
geometry creation tools, Internet integration and in-place reference file
editing. AutoCAD 2000 also introduced key new design technology including: a new
environment for working with multiple design files, an object property manager,
the AutoCAD Design Center for drag-and-drop access of local and web-based design
content, a new high-performance hardcopy system, and a complete overhaul of the
AutoLISP customization environment. In addition to providing significant new
features, AutoCAD 2000 demonstrated superior reliability, winning the 1999
All-Star Award from Cadalyst Magazine and the 1999 Editors' Choice Award from
Cadence Magazine.

AutoCAD software's open-system architecture allows users to adapt AutoCAD to
unique professional requirements with any of more than 5,000 independently
developed add-on applications. Many of these applications are based on
ObjectARX(TM) technology, utilizing AutoCAD's object-oriented C++-based
application programming interfaces, or APIs. AutoCAD 2000 added extensive
additions and enhancements to the ObjectARX kernel, enabling complete object
access to the core geometry data model and developer access to new AutoCAD 2000
technology and features.

On a stand-alone basis, sales of AutoCAD and related upgrades accounted for 37
percent, 43 percent and 52 percent of Autodesk's consolidated net revenues in
fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. During fiscal year 2000, approximately
322,000 new AutoCAD based licenses were added worldwide, compared to 266,000 and
244,000 licenses added during fiscal 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Mechanical Desktop
Mechanical Desktop is the world's leading midpriced 3D design system and is the
only system that integrates 2D design with parametric, feature-based solid and
surface modeling. It extends the power of the AutoCAD design environment by
uniting 2D and 3D design. Core benefits of Mechanical Desktop are 3D,
feature-based solid and surface modeling; AutoCAD integration; and flexible 2D
design, 3D modeling and surfacing.

AutoCAD Architectural Desktop
AutoCAD Architectural Desktop software offers a new level of architectural
design tools built on the speed and power of AutoCAD. Supporting the
architectural design process from conceptual design to design development,
through construction documentation, AutoCAD Architectural Desktop features
industry-specific 2D production drafting functionality as well as integrated and
accessible 3D design options. Users benefit from simplified mass modeling,
intelligent building components, style definitions, and layer management
according to industry standards. AutoCAD Architectural Desktop software's data
continuity throughout the entire design process enables efficiency and
productivity by eliminating the need to recreate design and drafting data.

AutoCAD Map 2000
AutoCAD Map(R) 2000 is the Autodesk solution for precision mapping and
geographic information system analysis in the AutoCAD(R) environment. It
contains the complete AutoCAD 2000 toolset to enhance productivity, plus it
offers specialized functionality for creating, maintaining and producing maps
and geospatial data. AutoCAD Map 2000 integrates a wide variety of data types
and file formats, provides powerful database-linking capabilities and includes
essential GIS analysis tools. Customers can work with large data sets consisting
of multiple maps, and multiple users can access the same map simultaneously
without versioning conflicts. Sophisticated plotting and presentation
capabilities make AutoCAD Map 2000 an effective communication tool.

AutoCAD LT
AutoCAD LT 2000 is a low-cost 2D CAD application intended for CAD managers,
designers and engineers who need a powerful, stand-alone drafting tool, but who
do not require the advanced feature set in AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT 2000 software
contains an extensive 2D drafting toolset as well as 3D lines and polylines with
quick shading and hidden-line removal. Other features include a Start-Up dialog
box and Drawing Set-Up

                                       3
<PAGE>

wizards to help the user create or open a drawing quickly; real-time pan and
zoom; the AutoCAD Design Center(TM) featuring thousands of industry-standard
symbols; and Integrated Internet Tools to open or save drawings directly to the
Internet. AutoCAD LT operates in the Windows environment with pull-down menus,
customizable toolbar, toolbox, menus and scripts, as well as dialog boxes and
icons. It supports the Windows Clipboard, as well as ActiveX Automation. AutoCAD
LT 2000 is fully compatible with Windows 98 and Windows NT 4.X, and has built-in
Microsoft Office 97 compatibility.

The principal product offerings from the Discreet Segment are discussed below:

3D Studio MAX
3D Studio MAX R3 software, which began shipping in the second quarter of fiscal
2000, is a 3D modeling and animation software package specifically written to
take advantage of advanced features offered by the Windows NT operating system.
With a real-time interface, multiple-processor support and 3D graphics
acceleration capabilities, 3D Studio MAX delivers workstation-class performance
and functionality to personal computers.

The intuitive interface eliminates many of the commonly accepted boundaries
between modeling, rendering and animation, and offers instant feedback; users
can see the results of their actions in real time, as they are applied. Shaded
views with real-time feedback allow users to visualize natural, real-world
environments in which they can directly manipulate objects, regardless of scene
complexity. Because 3D Studio MAX software maintains a data history of geometry
creation and modification, users can return to and change any step, at any time,
without having to redo prior work. 3D Studio MAX is also the only environment
that can run Character Studio(R), a powerful character-animation and skinning
plug-in software product offered by Autodesk.

flame*
flame* is an on-line, resolution-independent, non-linear, uncompressed digital
system. The system is used by creative professionals to create, edit and
composite special visual effects in an on-line, real-time environment. Easily
integrated into a suite environment and possessing the power and features
necessary to serve as the core of a fully digital suite, flame* is designed to
allow the operator to create desired effects with near instantaneous feedback. A
complete flame* system includes the flame* software, a Silicon Graphics, Inc.,
or SGI, Octane workstation, discreet storage and various I/O devices.

inferno*
inferno* is an on-line, non-linear, resolution-independent, uncompressed digital
system providing all the features of flame* with film tools, and increased image
resolution and color control for digital film work. The system also features
tools for grain management, wire and scratch removal and color calibration. A
complete inferno* system includes the inferno* software, an SGI Onyx2
workstation, discreet storage and various I/O devices.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENT

The majority of Autodesk's basic research and product development has been
performed in the U.S., while translation and localization of foreign-market
versions, as well as some product development, are performed by development
teams or contractors in the local markets. Autodesk's product-related functions
in Europe, including software development, localization, quality assurance and
technical publications, are centralized in Neuchatel, Switzerland. Production in
Europe is centralized in Ireland, and production in Asia Pacific primarily takes
place in Singapore.

Autodesk intends to continue recruiting and hiring experienced software
developers and to consider the licensing and acquisition of complementary
software technologies and businesses. In addition, Autodesk will continue to
actively collaborate with and support independent software developers who offer
products that enhance and complement AutoCAD software and other products offered
by Autodesk.

The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in
computer hardware, operating systems and software, as well as changes in
customer requirements and preferences. To keep pace with these changes, Autodesk
maintains an aggressive program of new product development. Autodesk dedicates
considerable

                                       4
<PAGE>

resources to research and development to further enhance its existing products
and to create new products and technologies.

The software products offered by Autodesk are internally complex and, despite
extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or defects. Defects or
errors may occur in future releases of AutoCAD or other products. These defects
or errors could result in corrective releases to Autodesk's products, damage to
Autodesk's reputation, loss of revenues, an increase in product returns, or lack
of market acceptance of its products, any of which could harm Autodesk's
business.

Autodesk believes that its future results will depend largely upon its ability
to offer products that compete favorably in terms of reliability, performance,
ease of use, range of useful features and other factors. Delays or difficulties
in product development and enhancement may result in the delay or cancellation
of planned development projects, and could harm Autodesk's business. Further,
increased competition in the market for design, drafting, mapping or multimedia
software products could also have a negative impact on Autodesk's business.

From time to time Autodesk or others may announce products, features or
technologies which have the potential to shorten the life cycle of or replace
its then existing products. Such announcements could cause customers to defer
the decision to buy or determine not to buy its products or cause its resellers
or distributors to seek to return products, any of which could harm Autodesk's
business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, product
announcements by SGI and others in the past have caused customers to defer their
decision to buy or determine not to buy Autodesk's products. Moreover, products
or technologies developed by others may render Autodesk's products or technology
noncompetitive or obsolete.

Some of Autodesk's product development activities are performed by independent
firms and contractors, while other technologies are licensed from third parties.
Autodesk generally either owns or licenses the software developed by third
parties. Because talented development personnel are in high demand, independent
developers, including those who currently develop products for Autodesk, may not
be able to provide development support in the future. Similarly, Autodesk may
not be able to obtain and renew existing license agreements on favorable terms,
or at all, which could harm Autodesk's business.

Autodesk's business strategy has historically depended in large part on its
relationships with third-party developers, who provide products that expand the
functionality of Autodesk's design software. Some developers may elect to
support other products or otherwise experience disruption in product development
and delivery cycles. This disruption in particular markets could negatively
impact these third-party developers and end users, which could harm Autodesk's
business.

MARKETING AND SALES

Autodesk's customer-related operations are divided into three geographic
regions, the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, and are supported by a global
marketing and sales organization, WWFO (worldwide field operations). This
organization develops and manages overall marketing and sales programs and works
closely with a network of domestic and foreign offices. Autodesk sells its
software products primarily through distributors and value-added resellers, or
VARs, who distribute Autodesk's products to end users in more than 150
countries. VARs, including both independent owners and computer store
franchisees, are supported by Autodesk and its subsidiaries through technical
training and periodic publications.

In addition, Autodesk works directly with reseller and distributor sales
organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers and peripheral
manufacturers through cooperative advertising, promotions and trade-show
presentations. Autodesk employs mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts,
seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings and advertising in business and trade
journals. Autodesk has a worldwide user group organization dedicated to the
exchange of information related to the use of Autodesk's products.

                                       5
<PAGE>

Domestically, Autodesk distributes its products primarily through its authorized
reseller network. Other domestic sales are made principally to large
corporations, governmental agencies, educational institutions and, for some low-
end design products, to end-users. The majority of Autodesk's international
sales are made to resellers and distributors, which are supported by Autodesk's
foreign subsidiaries and international sales organizations. Some international
sales result from direct exports from the United States. Fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates, specifically the stronger value of the dollar, relative to
certain international currencies, could have a negative impact on foreign
revenues. These foreign currency fluctuations, as well as any slowdowns in any
of Autodesk's geographical markets, could harm Autodesk's business and adversely
impact future results of operations.

Autodesk's ability to effectively distribute its products depends in part upon
the financial and business condition of its VAR network. Although Autodesk is
not currently experiencing any material problems with its VAR network, computer
software resellers and distributors are typically not highly capitalized, have
tended to experience difficulties during times of economic contraction and
during periods of technology-market price pressure, and may do so in the future.
While no single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Autodesk's
consolidated revenues in any of fiscal years 2000, 1999 or 1998, the loss of, or
a significant reduction in, business with any one of Autodesk's major
international distributors or large U.S. resellers could harm Autodesk's
business.

Autodesk intends to continue to make its products available in foreign languages
and expects that foreign sales will continue to contribute a significant portion
of its consolidated revenues.

CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORT

Autodesk provides technical support and training to customers through a
leveraged model, augmented by programs designed to address specific direct
needs. We expect that end users rely primarily on their resellers and
distributors for technical support. Autodesk support the resellers and
distributors through technical product training, sales training classes and
direct telephone support. Support content is also available on the Product
Support portion of the Autodesk Internet site. There are also a number of user
group forums in which customers are able to share information.

While Autodesk expects the sales channel to provide the majority of technical
support to its customers, it has developed programs to deliver direct support to
certain customers. The Premier Support program enables large customers to
purchase an annual support contract, which provides unlimited support for
designated callers. In addition, Autodesk provides per-incident direct phone
support to end users under the Safety Net Program. This is a fee-based program
that allows customers to contact Autodesk directly.

Customer technical training is also leveraged through the authorized Autodesk
Training Center, or ATC(R), program; there are more than 700 independent ATC's
throughout the world. These accredited training centers offer in-depth education
and training in computer-aided design skills on Autodesk products, as well as on
related, independently developed software. Autodesk offers training sessions to
its sales and training channels to maintain a professional level of technical
expertise. Learning Assistance programs, which provide lessons related to design
projects through an interactive multimedia tool, are provided with select
products.

DEVELOPER PROGRAMS

One of Autodesk's key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of
its software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary
products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables
customers and third parties to customize Autodesk's products for a wide variety
of highly specific uses. Autodesk offers several programs that provide
marketing, sales, technical support and programming tools to developers who
develop add-on applications for Autodesk products.

                                       6
<PAGE>

To support the growth of third-party developers, whose applications extend and
enhance the functionality of Autodesk's products worldwide, Autodesk operates
the Autodesk Developer Network program, or ADN. The ADN is a business network
comprised of qualified independent application developers and customers. This
program provides sales, marketing and programming support, technical training
and consulting. Autodesk believes that the availability and use of third party
add-on products enhance sales opportunities for Autodesk's core products.

Under the Autodesk Developer Channel, Autodesk offers two programs to
third-party developers for the license of Autodesk software and technology. The
Unique Application Reseller program, or UAR, permits selected software developer
partners to sell and support Autodesk software when bundled with specifically
defined vertical applications. The Original Equipment Manufacturer program, or
OEM, provides the technology for qualified developers to create and deliver
suites of scaleable products that focus on solving customer needs in specialized
markets.

BACKLOG

Autodesk typically ships products within one to two weeks after receipt of an
order, which is common in the computer software industry. Accordingly, Autodesk
does not maintain significant backlog, and backlog as of any particular date
gives no indication of actual sales for any succeeding period.

COMPETITION

The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of
desktop computers with continually expanding capabilities at progressively lower
prices contributes to the ease of market entry. Because of these and other
factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the
future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced revenues
and profit margins, and loss of market share. The design software market in
particular is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the markets in
which Autodesk competes, both by entry of competitors with innovative
technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and
technologies. Some of Autodesk's competitors have significantly greater
financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources than Autodesk.

Autodesk believes that the principal factors affecting competition in its
markets are product reliability, performance, ease of use, range of useful
features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price and training. In
addition, the availability of third-party application software is a competitive
factor within the CAD market. Autodesk believes that it competes favorably in
these areas and that its competitive position will depend, in part, upon its
continued ability to enhance existing products and to develop and market new
products.

In April 1998, Autodesk received notice that the Federal Trade Commission, or
FTC, had undertaken a nonpublic investigation to determine whether Autodesk
or others have engaged in or are engaging in unfair methods of competition. In
March 2000, the FTC notified Autodesk that the FTC had determined to conclude
its investigation without taking any action.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSES

Autodesk protects its intellectual property through copyright, trade secret,
patent and trademark laws. For substantially all AutoCAD sales outside of North
America, Autodesk uses software protection locks to inhibit unauthorized
copying. Nonetheless, Autodesk's intellectual property rights may not be
successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or
challenged. In addition, the laws of certain foreign countries where Autodesk's
products are distributed do not protect Autodesk's intellectual property rights
to the same extent as U.S. laws. The inability of Autodesk to protect its
proprietary information could harm Autodesk's business.

                                       7
<PAGE>

From time to time, Autodesk receives claims alleging infringement of a third
party's intellectual property rights, including patents. Any disputes involving
Autodesk's intellectual property rights or those of another party could lead to
costly litigation, which could harm Autodesk's business.

Autodesk retains ownership of software it develops. All software is licensed to
users and provided in object code pursuant to either shrink-wrap, embedded or
on-line licenses, or executed license agreements. These agreements contain
restrictions on duplication, disclosure and transfer.

Autodesk believes that because of the limitations of laws protecting its
intellectual property and the rapid, ongoing technological changes in both the
computer hardware and software industries, it must rely principally upon
software engineering and marketing skills to maintain and enhance its
competitive market position.

Autodesk has an in-house antipiracy program focused on pursuing companies and
individuals who illegally duplicate, sell or install Autodesk's software
products. Software piracy is in some cases a felony under U.S. federal law,
which allows copyright and patent holders to protect and enforce their rights as
owners of intellectual property. In addition, Autodesk is a member and
co-founder of the Business Software Alliance, an organization comprised of
member software companies whose purpose is to advance favorable public policy
for the technology industry and promote the importance of honoring software
copyrights.

PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIERS

Production of Autodesk's software products involves duplication of the software
media and the printing of user manuals. The purchase of media and the transfer
of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are performed
by Autodesk and by licensed subcontractors. Media for Autodesk's products
include CD-ROMs and disks, which are available from multiple sources. User
manuals for Autodesk's products and packaging materials are produced to Autodesk
specifications by outside sources. Domestic production is performed in leased
facilities operated by Autodesk. Some product assembly is also performed by
independent third-party contractors. International production is performed by
independent third-party contractors in Ireland and Singapore. To date, Autodesk
has not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the production of its
software and documentation.

The Discreet Division has historically relied on third-party vendors to
manufacture and supply all of the hardware components used in its systems.
Manufacturing consists of assembly (including disk array assembly), testing, and
value added systems integration.

The Discreet Division's flame*, effect*, inferno*, fire*, smoke* and frost*
software currently run on workstations manufactured by SGI. There are
significant risks associated with this reliance on SGI and the Discreet Division
may be impacted by the timing of the development and release of products by SGI.
In addition, there may be unforeseen difficulties associated with adapting the
Discreet Division's products to future SGI products. Moreover, although Autodesk
has no reason to believe that the Discreet Division will be unable to obtain
sufficient quantities of SGI workstations on a timely basis, the Discreet
Division may not continue to be able to procure such workstations in sufficient
quantities on a timely basis.

The Discreet Division is also dependent on SGI as the sole source for video I/O
cards used in the systems. The Discreet Division generally purchases sole source
or other components pursuant to purchase orders placed from time to time in the
ordinary course of business and has no written agreements or guaranteed supply
arrangements with its sole source suppliers.

EMPLOYEES

                                       8
<PAGE>

As of January 31, 2000, Autodesk had 3,024 full-time employees. Autodesk's
future success is dependant in part on the ability to attract, retain and
motivate highly qualified technical and management personnel, for whom
competition is intense.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

Autodesk's executive offices and the principal offices for product development,
domestic marketing and sales, and production are located in leased office space
in northern California. Autodesk also leases office space in various locations
throughout the U.S. for local sales, development and technical support
personnel. Autodesk's foreign subsidiaries lease office space for their
operations.

Autodesk believes that its existing facilities and offices are adequate to meet
its requirements for the foreseeable future.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Autodesk is a party to various legal proceedings arising from the normal course
of business activities. In management's opinion, resolution of these matters is
not expected to have a material adverse impact on Autodesk's consolidated
results of operations or its financial position. However, depending on the
amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially affect
Autodesk's future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period.

In March 2000, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Autodesk and
some of its officers, alleging violations of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. The plaintiffs seek to act on behalf of purchasers of Autodesk common
stock during the period between September 14, 1998 and May 4, 1999. Autodesk
believes that it has meritorious defenses to the complaint and intends to
vigorously defend the action.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 2000.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following sets forth certain information as of January 31, 2000 regarding
the executive officers of Autodesk:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
           Name              Age                                            Position
           -----             ---                                            --------
<S>                          <C>       <C>
Carol A. Bartz............    51       Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Joseph H. Astroth, Ph.D..     44       Executive Vice President, GIS Solutions Division
Steve Cakebread...........    48       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Dominic J. Gallello.......    44       Executive Vice President, Design Solutions Division
Stephen McMahon...........    58       Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities
John Sanders..............    47       Vice President, Internet
Marcia K. Sterling........    56       Senior Vice President, Business Development, General Counsel, and Secretary
Godfrey R. Sullivan.......    46       Executive Vice President, Discreet Division
Michael E. Sutton.........    54       Executive Vice President, Worldwide Field Organization
</TABLE>

                                       9
<PAGE>

     Carol A. Bartz joined Autodesk in April 1992 and serves as President, Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. Ms. Bartz is a director of Network
Appliance, Inc., BEA Systems, Inc., Cadence Design Systems, Inc., Cisco Systems,
Inc., and VA Linux.

     Dr. Joseph H. Astroth joined Autodesk in January 1996 and serves as
Executive Vice President, GIS Solutions Division. From September 1989 through
December 1995, Dr. Astroth held various positions with Graphic Data Systems
Corporation including Director, Environmental Market Group, from January 1993 to
June 1994, and Vice President of Product Management, Engineering, from June 1994
to December 1995.

     Steve Cakebread joined Autodesk in April 1997 and serves as Senior Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer. From April 1993 through March 1997 he
served as Vice President, Finance World Trade Corporation at Silicon Graphics.
Mr. Cakebread held various finance and general management positions at
Hewlett-Packard from January 1972 through March 1993.

     Dominic J. Gallello is currently the Executive Vice President of the Design
Solutions Division. Previously, he was the Vice President of the MCAD Market
Group. Mr. Gallello served as Vice President, Asia Pacific, from the time he
joined Autodesk in October 1992 until July 1996.

     Stephen McMahon joined Autodesk in July 1992 and serves as Senior Vice
President, Human Resources and Facilities. From July 1987 to July 1992, Mr.
McMahon served as Senior Director, Human Resources, for Apple Computer, Inc.

     John Sanders was named Vice President, Internet, in October 1999. From
March 1996 to October 1999 he served as Vice President of Worldwide Support &
Services. Prior to joining Autodesk, Mr. Sanders spent 12 years at Apple
Computer in a number of sales, support and marketing positions.

     Marcia K. Sterling joined Autodesk in October 1995 and serves as Senior
Vice President, Business Development, General Counsel, and Secretary. From
September 1982 to October 1995, she practiced corporate and securities law at
Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati, where she was a member.

     Godfrey R. Sullivan is currently Executive Vice President of the Discreet
Division. Previously, he was Vice President of the Personal Solutions Group. Mr.
Sullivan served as Vice President, the Americas, since joining Autodesk in
October 1992 and as Acting Vice President, AEC/FM Market Group, from February
1995 to September 1995.

     Michael E. Sutton currently serves as Executive Vice President, Worldwide
Field Organization. Previously, Mr. Sutton served as Vice President,
Europe/Middle East/Africa from June 1993 through September 1998.

     There is no family relationship among any of the directors or executive
officers of Autodesk.

                                       10
<PAGE>

                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS

Autodesk's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
ADSK. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for each quarter
in the last two fiscal years:

Fiscal 2000                        High                         Low
 First Quarter                     $43 7/8                      $24 15/16
 Second Quarter                    $30 3/16                     $23 9/16
 Third Quarter                     $26 5/8                      $17 1/8
 Fourth Quarter                    $33 15/16                    $18

Fiscal 1999                        High                         Low
 First Quarter                     $49-7/8                      $39
 Second Quarter                    $48-7/8                      $31 1/8
 Third Quarter                     $35                          $23
 Fourth Quarter                    $48-1/2                      $29


Dividends

Autodesk paid quarterly dividends of $0.06 per share in fiscal 2000 and 1999 to
Autodesk shareholders. Autodesk intends to continue paying regular cash
dividends on a quarterly basis.

Sale of Securities

On March 16,1999, Autodesk sold 3.0 million shares of Autodesk common stock at
$41 per share for net proceeds of $117.5 million.

Stockholders

As of January 31, 2000 the approximate number of common stockholders of record
was 1,192.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 (In thousands, except per share
data, percentages, and employees)        Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                           2000          1999          1998           1997          1996
                                        ------------   -----------   -----------    ---------    ------------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>           <C>          <C>           <C>
For the Fiscal Year
 Net revenues                            $  820,182    $  871,879    $  768,684    $   598,617   $   618,164
 Income from operations/1/                      763       142,087        94,994         65,296        84,113
 Net income/1/                                9,808        97,132        56,215         42,247        43,647

At Year End
 Total assets                               907,326       823,260       699,901        595,610       598,077
 Long-term liabilities                        5,635         6,819        33,293         34,661        32,748

Common stock data
 Basic net income per share              $      0.16   $     1.72    $     1.00    $     0.77    $     0.78
 Diluted net income per share                   0.16         1.64          0.94          0.74          0.74
 Dividends paid per share                       0.24         0.20          0.20          0.20          0.20
</TABLE>

/1/ Fiscal 2000 results were impacted by non-recurring charges primarily related
to acquisitions and a work force reduction.

                                       11
<PAGE>

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS


The discussion in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" contains trend analyses and other forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, trend
analyses, and other information contained herein relative to markets for
Autodesk's products and trends in revenues, as well as other statements
including such words as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect,"
"goal," and "intend" and other similar expressions, constitute forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and
economic risks, and Autodesk's actual results could differ materially from those
set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth
elsewhere herein, including "Risk Factors Which May Impact Future Operating
Results."

Business Combination and Basis of Presentation

In March 1999, Autodesk acquired Discreet in a business combination accounted
for as a pooling of interests. Accordingly, all prior period consolidated
financial statements presented have been restated to include the combined
results of operations of Discreet as though it had always been a part of
Autodesk. The transaction resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of
approximately 10 million shares of Autodesk common stock in exchange for
Discreet's outstanding common stock.

Prior to the acquisition, Discreet's fiscal year ended on June 30. As a result
of differing year-ends, Autodesk's consolidated statements of operations for the
fiscal years ended January 31, 1999 and 1998 were combined with Discreet's
financial statements for the twelve months ended December 31, 1998, and the
fiscal year ended June 30, 1998, respectively. As such, Discreet's operating
results for the period from January 1, 1998 to June 30, 1998 are duplicated in
the consolidated statement of operations for the fiscal years ended January 31,
1999 and 1998. Discreet's revenues, net income, basic net income per share and
diluted net income per share were $75.9 million, $9.1 million, $0.16 and $0.15,
respectively, for the period January 1, 1998 through June 30, 1998.

In addition, Discreet's January 1999 results have been excluded from the
consolidated statement of operations as a result of changing Discreet's year-end
to January 31. In January 1999, Discreet recognized net revenues of $3.8 million
and incurred a net loss of $5.0 million.


Results of Operations

Net Revenues. Autodesk's fiscal 2000 net revenues of $820.2 million decreased
from $871.9 million in fiscal 1999. Increases in Asia Pacific's net revenues of
32 percent were more than offset by decreases of 15 percent and 10 percent in
net revenues in the Americas and Europe, respectively. The overall decrease in
net revenues was primarily due to a decline in the sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD
LT. On a stand-alone basis, sales of AutoCAD and related upgrades accounted for
37 percent and 45 percent of Autodesk's consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2000
and 1999, respectively.

The value of the U.S. dollar, relative to international currencies, did not have
a significant impact on net revenues in fiscal 2000 compared to the same period
in the prior fiscal year. International sales, including exports from the U.S.,
accounted for 65 percent of Autodesk's fiscal 2000 revenues compared to 59
percent in the prior fiscal year.

Autodesk's net revenues increased from $768.7 million in fiscal 1998 to $871.9
million in fiscal 1999. Revenues in the Americas and Europe increased 14 percent
and 28 percent, respectively, from fiscal 1998, while net revenues in Asia
Pacific decreased slightly for the same period. The increased revenues resulted
primarily from increased license revenues from new and upgrade product offerings
from Autodesk's market groups. On a stand-alone basis, sales of AutoCAD and
related upgrades accounted for 45 percent and 52 percent of Autodesk's
consolidated net revenues in fiscal 1999 and 1998, respectively. The value of
the U.S. dollar, relative to international currencies, did not have a
significant impact on net revenues in fiscal 1999 as compared to fiscal 1998.

                                       12
<PAGE>

Autodesk derives a substantial portion of its revenues from sales of AutoCAD
software, AutoCAD upgrades and vertical products that are interoperable with
AutoCAD, and expects this trend to continue. As such, any factor adversely
affecting sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD upgrades, including such factors as
product life cycle, market acceptance, product performance and reliability,
reputation, price, competition and the availability of third-party applications,
could harm Autodesk's business and consolidated results of operations.
Additionally, slowdowns in any of Autodesk's geographical markets could also
harm Autodesk's business and consolidated results of operations.

Product returns, consisting principally of stock rotation, are recorded as a
reduction of revenues and represented 5 percent, 4 percent and 6 percent of
consolidated net revenues for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
Management anticipates that the level of product returns in future periods will
continue to be impacted by the timing of new product releases, as well as the
quality and market acceptance of new products.

Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues includes the purchase of disks and compact
disks, cost of hardware sold (mainly workstations manufactured by Silicon
Graphics, Inc.), cost of service contracts, costs associated with transferring
Autodesk's software to electronic media, printing of user manuals and packaging
materials, freight, royalties, amortization of purchased technology and
capitalized software, and, in certain foreign markets, software protection
locks.

Cost of revenues increased from 15 percent of net revenues in fiscal 1999 to 18
percent in fiscal 2000. This increase was primarily due to (1) increases in
royalties; (2) amortization of capitalized software for AutoCAD 2000, which was
introduced in fiscal 2000; and (3) the April 1999 acquisition of VISION*
Solutions ("VISION"), which has relatively higher cost of revenues as a
percentage of net revenues than other products.

Cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues decreased to 15 percent in
fiscal 1999 from 17 percent in fiscal 1998. The decrease was primarily due to
lower royalties for licensed technology, a larger proportion of software as
opposed to hardware sales, and the geographic distribution of sales, partially
offset by an increase in the amortization of purchased technologies and
capitalized software.

In the future, cost of revenues as a percentage of net revenues may be impacted
by the mix of product sales, software amortization costs, royalty rates for
licensed technology and the geographic distribution of sales.

Marketing and Sales. Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, sales
commissions, travel, and facility costs for Autodesk's marketing, sales, dealer
training and support personnel. These expenses also include programs aimed at
increasing revenues, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, as well
as various sales and promotional programs designed for specific sales channels
and end users.

Marketing and sales expenses increased from 34 percent of net revenues in fiscal
1999 to 38 percent in fiscal 2000. The increase in spending was largely due to
(1) increased advertising and promotional costs associated with the launch of
several new and enhanced products introduced during fiscal 2000; (2) higher
employee costs; and (3) incremental costs due to the acquisition of VISION.

Marketing and sales as a percentage of net revenues decreased slightly from 35
percent in fiscal 1998 to 34 percent in fiscal 1999. In fiscal 1998, marketing
and sales expenses included costs related to the launch of AutoCAD Release 14
and other new and enhanced products.

Autodesk expects to continue to invest in marketing and sales of its products,
to develop market opportunities and to promote Autodesk's competitive position.
Accordingly, Autodesk expects marketing and sales expenses to continue to be
significant, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenues.

Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of
salaries and benefits for software engineers, contract development fees,
expenses associated with product translations and costs of computer equipment
used in software development. Research and development costs increased from
$157.1 million in fiscal 1999 to $164.0 million in fiscal 2000. The increase was
primarily due to higher employee-related costs; higher costs related primarily
to the Design 2000 family of products; increased costs associated with product
translations; and incremental costs due to the acquisition of VISION.

                                       13
<PAGE>

Research and development costs increased from $136.8 million in fiscal 1998 to
$157.1 million in fiscal 1999. The increase was primarily due to higher
employee-related costs and incremental costs due to the acquisition of Genius
CAD Software GmbH ("Genius") in May 1998.

Autodesk anticipates that research and development spending will increase in
fiscal 2001 as a result of product development efforts by Autodesk's market
groups and incremental personnel costs.

General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses include
Autodesk's information systems, finance, human resources, legal and other
administrative operations. As a percentage of net revenues, general and
administrative expenses were 16 percent, 13 percent and 11 percent in fiscal
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The increases between years were primarily
due to higher (1) employee-related expenses, (2) costs incurred to ensure that
Autodesk's infrastructure was year 2000 compliant, (3) consulting fees related
to enhancing the information systems infrastructure, and (4) incremental costs
related to acquisitions. Autodesk currently expects that in the coming year
general and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net revenues, will
remain relatively the same as in fiscal 2000.

Amortization of Goodwill and Purchased Intangibles. Amortization of goodwill and
purchased intangibles increased from $28.7 million in fiscal 1999 to $30.6
million in fiscal 2000, primarily as a result of increased amortization expense
arising from the April 1999 acquisition of VISION. Amortization of goodwill and
purchased intangibles increased from $22.0 million in fiscal 1998 to $28.7
million in fiscal 1999, primarily as a result of the increased amortization
expense arising from the May 1998 acquisition of Genius and other acquisitions
that occurred during the middle of fiscal 1998. See "Business Combinations"
below for additional discussion.

Nonrecurring Charges. Nonrecurring charges in fiscal 2000 ($34.7 million)
consisted primarily of Discreet and VISION acquisition-related charges and a
corporate restructuring that occurred during the third quarter. As a result of
the restructuring, which involved the elimination of approximately 350 positions
and related office closures, Autodesk is currently realizing quarterly savings
of approximately $9.0 million. These savings are expected to last through the
end of fiscal 2001 and will be reflected in each on-going cost and expense line
item in the consolidated statement of operations. The savings will be offset
over time by costs associated with, among other things, recent acquisitions and
investments in related Internet entities.

Nonrecurring charges in fiscal 1999 ($19.7 million) consisted primarily of
Genius acquisition-related charges and other charges that involved the
consolidation of certain development centers, write-off of purchased
technologies associated with these development centers and the elimination of 87
positions in Asia Pacific. The savings resulting from these activities were
offset by costs associated with new businesses.

Nonrecurring charges in fiscal 1998 ($26.8 million) consisted primarily of
Softdesk, Inc. ("Softdesk"), D-Vision Systems, Inc. ("D-Vision") and other
acquisition-related charges. These charges were offset by a gain on the sale of
Autodesk's interest in a network technology company and the reversal of certain
lease-related reserves related to Discreet's 1996 restructuring.

For additional information regarding the nonrecurring charges recorded over the
past three fiscal years, see Note 10. Nonrecurring Charges in the Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Litigation Accrual Reversal. In fiscal 1999, Autodesk reversed $18.6 million of
accruals associated with litigation matters. Of the amount, $18.2 million
related to final adjudication of a claim involving a trade-secret
misappropriation brought by Vermont Microsystems, Inc.

Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income, net was $23.2 million,
$17.1 million and $11.7 million in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
fiscal 1999 balance includes Autodesk's $2.7 million reversal of an interest
accrual resulting from the closure of the Vermont Microsystems litigation
matter, and a $1.3 million gain associated with the sale of various technical
programs and intangible assets. Excluding these fiscal 1999 amounts, the
increases in interest and other income, net between fiscal 2000 and 1999 and
between fiscal 1999 and 1998 were largely due to increases in average cash and
marketable securities balances resulting from cash provided by operating
activities and common stock issuances.


                                       14
<PAGE>

Provision for Income Taxes. Autodesk's effective income tax rate, excluding the
impact of nonrecurring charges, was 32.0 percent, 36.6 percent and 38.3 percent
in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The effective tax rate for fiscal
2000 is less than the federal statutory rate of 35 percent due to the benefits
associated with Autodesk's foreign earnings which are taxed at rates different
from the federal statutory rate, research credits and tax-exempt interest,
partially offset by non-deductible goodwill amortization. The fiscal 2000 rate
is lower than the fiscal 1999 rate due to a relatively higher impact of these
permanent items. The decrease in the effective income tax rate in fiscal 1999
compared to fiscal 1998 was due to incremental tax benefits associated with
Autodesk's foreign earnings, which are taxed at rates different from the U.S.
statutory rate, and a reduction in the relative impact of amortization of
certain intangible assets, partially offset by a reduction of the benefit from
utilization of net operating losses. No tax benefit was recorded with regard to
the nonrecurring charges incurred in connection with the Discreet and VISION
acquisitions.

Autodesk's U.S. income tax returns for the fiscal years ended January 31, 1992
through 1996, have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). On
August 27, 1997, the IRS issued a Notice for Deficiency proposing increases to
the amount of Autodesk's federal income taxes for fiscal 1992 and 1993. On
November 25, 1997, Autodesk filed a petition with the United States Tax Court to
contest these alleged tax deficiencies. In July 1999, Autodesk made tax payments
with respect to all issues addressed as part of the IRS audit. As a result,
Autodesk has either resolved all matters or made prepayments with respect to
remaining outstanding issues for the tax years ended January 31, 1992 through
1996. The resolution of any remaining adjustments that may ultimately result
from these examinations are not expected to have a material adverse impact on
Autodesk's consolidated results of operations or its financial position.


Business Combinations


In addition to the acquisition of Discreet, the following acquisitions occurred
over the past three years.


VISION

On April 22, 1999, Autodesk acquired VISION, a vendor of enterprise automated
mapping/facilities management/geographic information systems (AM/FM/GIS)
solutions. Of the $26.0 million purchase price, which was paid in cash, $3.3
million represented the value of in-process research and development ("IPR&D")
that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future
use, and as such, was expensed during fiscal 2000. Of the remaining purchase
price, $17.6 million and $2.1 million were allocated to goodwill and other
intangibles, respectively.

As of the acquisition date, the IPR&D consisted of the development of two
products, VISION 5.3, which was 60 percent complete at the time, and VISION
Electric 2.3, which was 39 percent complete. Both projects, which were
originally expected to be completed in late fiscal 2000 at an aggregate cost to
complete of $1.4 million, are expected to be introduced in fiscal 2001. At
January 31, 2000, the estimated cost to complete both projects was less than
$0.2 million.

In valuing the developed and in-process technologies at the acquisition date,
Autodesk used a discounted cash flow analysis based on projected net revenues,
cost of revenues, operating expenses and income taxes resulting from such
technologies over a 4-year period. The projected financial results, which were
discounted using a 20 percent rate for the developed technology and a 25 percent
rate for the in-process technology, were based on expectations for VISION on a
stand-alone basis and excluded any special synergistic benefits that Autodesk
expected to achieve after the acquisition.

The revenue projections for the developed technologies, which considered the
release dates of new products, assumed a gradual decline. The revenue
projections for the IPR&D were based on expected trends in technology and the
timing of new product introductions by Autodesk.


Genius

On May 4, 1998, Autodesk entered into an agreement with Genius, a German limited
liability company, to purchase various mechanical CAD software applications and
technologies. Autodesk accounted for this

                                       15
<PAGE>

acquisition under the purchase method of accounting. Of the total purchase price
of $68.9 million, which was paid in cash, $13.1 million was allocated to IPR&D
and was expensed; $12.7 million was allocated to an intangible asset, purchased
technology; and $41.6 million was allocated to goodwill.

As of the acquisition date, Genius had initiated the research and development
effort related to product features and functionality that currently resides in
(1) Genius AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, (2) Genius Desktop, (3) Genius Vario and (4)
Genius Modules product families. The research and development projects were in
varying stages of completion, ranging from 20 percent to 45 percent complete as
of the acquisition date, with total estimated costs of $1.5 million to reach
technological feasibility at the time. The in-process projects were completed in
fiscal 2000, at an aggregate amount approximately equal to the original
estimated costs to complete.

In valuing the developed and in-process technologies, Autodesk used a discounted
cash flow analysis based on projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating
expenses and income taxes resulting from such technologies over a 5-year period.
The projected financial results were discounted using a 15 percent rate for the
developed technology and a 20 percent rate for the in-process technology.

The revenue projections for the developed technology, which considered
historical product life cycles and anticipated product release dates, assumed a
gradual decline over the 5-year period. The revenue projections for the IPR&D
assumed higher than historical average sales due to the integration and
expansion of Genius products into Autodesk's worldwide sales channels,
particularly in North America and Asia Pacific, which historically had not
contributed significant revenues to Genius.

Autodesk believed that the assumptions used in the valuations were reasonable at
the time of the acquisition. Actual revenue results to date have been lower than
forecasted due primarily to the reduced demand for AutoCAD-related products in
fiscal 2000.


Softdesk

On March 31, 1997, Autodesk exchanged 2.9 million shares of its common stock for
all of the outstanding stock of Softdesk, a supplier of AutoCAD-based
applications software for the architecture, engineering, and construction
market. Based on the value of Autodesk stock and options exchanged, the
transaction, including associated costs, was valued at approximately $94.1
million.

Of the $94.1 million purchase price, $19.2 million was allocated to IPR&D and
expensed in fiscal 1998; $9.2 million was allocated to an intangible asset,
purchased technologies; $6.7 million was allocated to other intangible assets;
and $48.0 million was allocated to goodwill.

As of the acquisition date, Softdesk had spent a significant amount of research
and development effort related to the reprogramming of all its existing products
to a new ARX technology (AutoCAD Runtime Extension) code base. The new ARX
technology was expected to provide significant improvement in the orientation of
objects in CAD products. As of the acquisition date, Softdesk had completed
improvements of ARX technology in various development projects associated within
the following technology categories: (1) AutoCAD Architectural/Structural, (2)
AutoCAD Civil, (3) AutoCAD Imaging, (4) AutoCAD maintenance, (5) AutoCAD
Productivity and (6) AutoCAD Retail.

The research and development projects were in varying stages of completion,
ranging from 65 percent to 90 percent complete as of the acquisition date, with
total estimated costs to complete of $1.8 million to reach technological
feasibility at the time. These in-process projects were completed two years ago
at an aggregate amount approximately equal to the original estimated costs to
complete.

In valuing the developed and in-process technologies, Autodesk used a discounted
cash flow analysis based on projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating
expenses and income taxes over a 7-year period. The projected financial results
were discounted using a 15 percent rate for the developed technology and a 20
percent rate for the in-process technology.

The revenue projections for the developed and in-process technologies were based
on (1) aggregate revenue growth rates for the business as a whole, (2)
individual product revenues, (3) growth rates for the CAD software market, (4)
the aggregate size of the CAD software market, (5) anticipated product
development and introduction schedules, (6) product sales cycles and (7) the
estimated life of a product's underlying technology.

Autodesk believed that the assumptions used in the valuations were reasonable at
the time of the acquisition. Actual results to date, however, have been lower
than forecasted. This shortfall reflects the reduced demand for

                                       16
<PAGE>

AutoCAD-related products, competitive factors related to price, difficulties in
developing robust commercial applications in the new ObjectARX environment,
functionality and performance in the architecture, engineering and construction
software industry, particularly in regard to localized building services
applications.


Lightscape Technologies, Inc. ("Lightscape")

On December 2, 1997, Discreet entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and
Reorganization with Lightscape, a Delaware corporation. The merger closed on
December 30, 1997. As a result of the merger, Discreet acquired, among other
products, the Lightscape product, a software application which integrates
radiosity and raytracing with physically based lighting, including related
know-how and goodwill. The aggregate purchase consideration of $7.6 million
consisted primarily of $6.4 million of assumed liabilities.

Of the $7.6 million purchase price, $1.7 million was allocated to IPR&D and was
expensed during fiscal 1998; and $4.3 million was allocated to goodwill.

As of the acquisition date, the in-process research and development project
involved next generation Lightscape technology, which was 25 percent complete at
the time with estimated costs to complete of $2.0 million. In valuing the in-
process technology, Discreet used a discounted cash flow analysis based on
projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses and income taxes
resulting from the project over a 5-year period. The projected financial results
were discounted using a 40 percent rate. The development project has not yet
been completed. Management is currently assessing how the technology will be
integrated with the 3D Studio MAX rendering system.

The revenue projection was based on estimates of relevant market sizes and
growth factors, expected trends in technology and the nature and expected timing
of new product introductions by Discreet and its competitors.

Discreet believed that the assumptions used in valuing the in-process technology
were reasonable at the time of the acquisition. While the next generation
product has been released, actual financial results have been lower than
originally projected due to the following factors: (1) unanticipated delays in
the integration of the Lightscape product into Discreet's corporate branding
initiatives, resulting in a longer than anticipated period of reduced marketing
effort; (2) slow progress in the development of a distribution channel; and (3)
delays in integrating retained Lightscape personnel into Discreet's research and
development and sales and marketing groups. As a result of these factors,
Discreet missed market opportunities and anticipates greater uncertainty
regarding future revenue levels from Lightscape products.


D-Vision

On July 15, 1997, Discreet acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital
stock of D-Vision, an Illinois corporation, pursuant to a Stock Purchase
Agreement. As a result of this acquisition, Discreet acquired the D-Vision
ONLINE and PRO software products for nonlinear video and digital media editing
solutions including related know-how and goodwill. The $27.2 million purchase
price was primarily paid through a combination of 0.2 million newly issued
common shares that had a value of $10.7 million, and approximately $10.8 million
in cash.

Of the $27.2 million purchase price, $5.3 million was allocated to IPR&D and was
expensed during fiscal 1998; $3.1 million was allocated to an intangible asset,
purchased technology; and $16.7 million was allocated to goodwill.

As of the acquisition date, the in-process research and development project
involved next generation D-Vision technology, which was 26 percent complete at
the time with estimated costs to complete of $2.6 million. The development
project was later completed and the product was released in fiscal 2000 at an
aggregate amount approximately equal to the original estimated costs to
complete.

In valuing the acquired D-Vision ONLINE and PRO software products and the
in-process technology, Discreet used a discounted cash flow analysis based on
projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating expenses and income taxes
resulting from such technologies over a 5-year period. The projected financial
results were discounted using a 20 percent rate for the developed technology and
a 25 percent rate for the in-process technology.

                                       17
<PAGE>

The revenue projections for the developed technologies, which considered the
release dates of new products, assumed a gradual decline over the 5-year period.
The revenue projections for the IPR&D were based on expected trends in
technology and the timing of new product introductions by Discreet.

Discreet believed that the assumptions used in the valuations were reasonable at
the time of the acquisition. Actual results to date have been lower than
forecasted. This has been primarily due to the following factors: (1)
unanticipated delays in the integration of the D-Vision product into Discreet's
corporate branding initiatives, resulting in a longer than anticipated period of
reduced marketing effort; (2) slow progress in resolving disputes with
D-Vision's existing resellers and the development of a distribution channel; (3)
following the acquisition, Discreet generated revenues solely from the sale of
D-Vision software and not from the sale of software/hardware bundles (including
D-Vision software and Truevision graphics boards) as originally forecasted; (4)
following the acquisition, Truevision discontinued selling D-Vision software,
however, the forecasts were prepared using the assumption that these sales would
continue; (5) delays in the realization of synergies from fully integrated
products based on the D-Vision technology due to delays in the completion and
integration of this technology; and (6) delays in completing research and
development projects due to changes in technological and market requirements. As
a result of these factors, Discreet missed market opportunities and anticipates
greater uncertainty regarding future revenue levels, than originally forecasted.

Denim Software L.L.C. ("Denim")

On June 12, 1997, Discreet acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed
certain liabilities of Denim pursuant to the terms of an asset purchase
agreement. The purchased assets consisted primarily of Denim software products,
including ILLUMINAIRE Paint, ILLUMINAIRE Composition and ILLUMINAIRE Studio and
related know-how and goodwill. The aggregate purchase price of $12.2 million
consisted primarily of a cash payment of $9.1 million and the assumption of $2.2
million of liabilities.

Of the $12.2 million purchase price, $2.2 million was allocated to IPR&D and was
expensed in fiscal 1998; $1.5 million was allocated to an intangible asset,
purchased technology; and $7.9 million was allocated to goodwill. As of the
acquisition date, the in-process research and development project involved next
generation Denim technology, which was 24 percent complete at the time with an
estimated cost to complete the project of $1.0 million. The project was later
completed and the product was released in fiscal 2000 at an aggregate amount
approximately equal to the original estimated costs to complete.

In valuing the developed and in-process technologies, Discreet used a discounted
cash flow analysis based on projected net revenues, cost of revenues, operating
expenses and income taxes resulting from such technologies over a 5-year period.
The projected financial results were discounted using a 20 percent rate for the
developed technology and a 25 percent rate for the in-process technology.

The revenue projections for the developed technologies, which considered the
release dates of new products, assumed a gradual decline over the 5-year period.
The revenue projections for the IPR&D were based on expected trends in
technology and the timing of new product introductions by Discreet.

Discreet believed that the assumptions used in the valuations were reasonable at
the time of the acquisition. Actual results to date, however, have been lower
than forecasted due to the following factors: (1) unanticipated delays in the
integration of the Denim product into Discreet's corporate branding initiatives,
resulting in a longer than anticipated period of reduced marketing effort; (2)
slow progress in the development of a distribution channel; (3) delays in the
realization of synergies from fully integrated products based on the Denim
technology due to delays in the integration of this technology; and (4) delays
in completing research and development projects due to changes in technological
and market requirements for digital video systems. As a result of these factors,
Discreet missed market opportunities and anticipates greater uncertainty
regarding future revenue levels than originally forecasted.

                                       18
<PAGE>

Recently Issued Accounting Standards


Autodesk has until fiscal year 2002 to adopt the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities," or SFAS 133, which was issued in June 1998. This
Statement requires Autodesk to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at
fair value. Autodesk is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 133 on its
financial statements and related disclosures.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Staff of the Securities and
Exchange Commission issued two Staff Accounting Bulletins, involving the
accounting for restructuring charges and revenue recognition. Management
believes that Autodesk's practices and policies are in compliance with the Staff
Accounting Bulletins and that the impact will not have a material effect on
Autodesk's financial position or results of operations.


Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, which consist primarily of
high-quality municipal bonds, tax-advantaged money market instruments and U.S.
Treasury bills, totaled $540.9 million at January 31, 2000, compared to $428.0
million at January 31, 1999. The $112.9 million increase was due primarily to
cash generated from operations ($103.3 million) and cash proceeds from the
issuance of common stock ($165.2 million). This increase was partially offset by
cash used to acquire VISION ($26.0 million), to repurchase shares of Autodesk's
common stock under a program announced in November, 1999 ($90.1 million), to
purchase fixed and other assets ($14.9 million), and to pay dividends ($14.6
million).

In November 1999, management announced a plan to repurchase up to 8.0 million
shares of Autodesk's common stock. The primary purpose of the stock repurchase
program was to help offset the dilution to earnings per share caused by the
issuance of stock under Autodesk's employee stock plans. By January 31, 2000,
Autodesk repurchased and retired 2.9 million shares, which were acquired in the
open market. In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, Autodesk
entered into a series of equity collar (option) contracts with a financial
institution with respect to 1.8 million shares of its common stock. The options,
which expire between June and December 2000, give Autodesk a choice of physical,
cash and net-share settlement methods.

In March 2000, management announced another plan to repurchase up to an
additional 8.0 million shares of Autodesk's common stock.

In April 2000, Autodesk invested $17.5 million in a related company,
Buzzsaw.com, Inc. Autodesk is accounting for this investment under the equity
method of accounting. The impact of Buzzsaw.com's losses in fiscal 2000 was
immaterial.

Autodesk has a U.S. line of credit permitting short-term, unsecured borrowings
of up to $40.0 million, which may be used from time to time to facilitate
short-term cash flow. At January 31, 2000, there were no borrowings outstanding
under this agreement, which expires in January, 2001.

Additionally, Autodesk has a revolving demand line of credit with a bank, under
which it may borrow up to Cdn$5.0 million ($3.5 million at January 31, 2000).
The amount available under the revolving line of credit was reduced by letters
of guarantee totaling Cdn$0.3 million ($0.2 million at January 31, 2000).

Principal commitments at January 31, 2000, consisted of obligations under
operating leases for facilities.

Longer-term cash requirements, other than normal operating expenses, are
anticipated for development of new software products including the incremental
product offerings resulting from the acquisitions of Discreet, Genius, and
VISION and enhancement of existing products; financing anticipated growth;
dividend payments; the share repurchase program; and the acquisition of
businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to Autodesk's
business. Autodesk believes that its existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable
securities, available line of credit, and cash generated from operations will be
sufficient to satisfy its currently anticipated short-term and longer-term cash
requirements.

Risk Factors Which May Impact Future Operating Results

                                       19
<PAGE>

Autodesk operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of
risks, many of which are beyond its control. The following discussion highlights
some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on future results
of operations.

Fluctuations in quarterly operating results. From time to time, Autodesk
experiences fluctuations in its quarterly operations as a result of, among other
things, the timing of the introduction of new products by Autodesk or its
competitors, increases in personnel, marketing or operating expenses, changes in
product pricing or product mix, delays in product, competitive factors and
general economic conditions. During fiscal 2000, Autodesk experienced reduced
sales which Autodesk believes may be attributable to a slowdown of customer
purchases in response to product transition issues relating to the introduction
of AutoCAD 2000 before introduction of current versions of products such as
Mechanical Desktop 4.0 and AutoCAD LT 2000, and to general concerns about Year
2000 problems, in particular diversion of software budgets to Year 2000 testing.

In addition, Autodesk has in the past experienced fluctuations in operating
results in interim periods in certain geographic regions due to seasonality. In
particular, Autodesk's operating results in Europe during the third quarter are
usually impacted by a slow summer period, and the Asia Pacific operations
typically experience seasonal slowing in the third and fourth quarters.

Within Discreet, a limited number of system sales may account for a substantial
percentage of Discreet's quarterly revenue because of the high average sales
price of products and the timing of purchase orders. Historically, Discreet has
generally experienced greater revenues during the period following the
completion of the National Association of Broadcasters trade show, which
typically is held in April. In addition, the timing of revenue is influenced by
other factors, including the timing of individual orders and shipments, other
industry trade shows, competition, seasonal customer buying patterns, changes in
customer buying patterns in response to platform changes and changes in product
development, and sales and marketing expenditures.

Additionally, Autodesk's operating expenses are based in part on its
expectations for future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term.
Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an immediate
and significant adverse effect on Autodesk's consolidated results of operations
and financial condition.

Shortfalls in Autodesk's revenues or earnings from levels expected by securities
analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading
price of Autodesk's common stock. Moreover, Autodesk's stock price is subject to
the volatility generally associated with technology stocks and may also be
affected by broader market trends unrelated to performance.

Product Concentration. Autodesk derives a substantial portion of its revenues
from sales of AutoCAD software, AutoCAD upgrades, and adjacent products that are
interoperable with AutoCAD. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of
AutoCAD and AutoCAD upgrades, including product life cycle, market acceptance,
product performance and reliability, reputation, price, competition and the
availability of third-party applications, would likely harm Autodesk's business.

Competition. The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the
availability of desktop computers with continually expanding capabilities at
progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. Because of
these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to
intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions,
reduced revenues and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which could
harm Autodesk's business, consolidated results of operations and financial
condition. The design software market in particular is characterized by vigorous
competition in each of the vertical markets in which Autodesk and its individual
market groups compete, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies
and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies.
Certain of the competitors of Autodesk have greater financial, technical, sales
and marketing and other resources than Autodesk.

Autodesk believes that the principal factors affecting competition in its
markets are product reliability, performance, ease of use, range of useful
features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price and training. In
addition, the availability of third-party application software is a competitive
factor within the CAD market. Autodesk believes that it competes favorably in
these areas and that its competitive position depends, in part, upon its
continued ability to enhance existing products and to develop and market new
products.

Product Development and Introduction. The software industry is characterized by
rapid technological change as well as changes in customer requirements and
preferences. The software products offered by Autodesk are internally complex,
and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors or
defects. Defects or errors may occur in future releases of AutoCAD or other
software products offered by Autodesk. These defects

                                       20
<PAGE>

or errors could result in corrective releases to Autodesk's software products,
damage to Autodesk's reputation, loss of revenues, an increase in product
returns or lack of market acceptance of its products, any of which could harm
Autodesk's business.

Autodesk believes that its future results will depend largely upon its ability
to offer products that compete favorably with respect to reliability,
performance, ease of use, range of useful features, continuing product
enhancements, reputation, price and training. Delays or difficulties may result
in the delay or cancellation of planned development projects and could harm
Autodesk's business. Further, increased competition in the market for design,
drafting, mapping, or multimedia software products could also have a negative
impact on Autodesk's business and consolidated results of operations. More
specifically, gross margins may be adversely affected if sales of low-end CAD
products and AutoCAD upgrades, which historically have had lower margins, grow
at a faster rate than Autodesk's higher-margin products.

The success of the Discreet Segment will depend in part upon Autodesk's ability
to enhance Discreet's existing systems and software and to develop and introduce
new products and features that meet changing customer requirements and emerging
industry standards on a timely basis. To date, Discreet's products have been
purchased primarily by creative professionals for use in production and
postproduction in the film and video industries and computer gaming. In order
for the Discreet Segment to achieve sustained growth, the market for Discreet's
product offerings must continue to develop, and Autodesk must expand this market
to include additional applications within the film and video industries,
broadcast, games and the Internet, and develop new products for use in related
markets. While Autodesk believes that the market recognition that Discreet
achieved through sales of flame*, smoke*, flint*, frost*, inferno*, and fire*
systems to creative professionals will facilitate Autodesk's marketing efforts
in new markets, the Discreet Segment may not be able to successfully develop and
market systems and software for other markets, and, even if it does so, such
systems and software may not be accepted at a rate, and in levels, sufficient to
maintain growth. Further, the distribution channels, technical requirements, and
levels and bases of competition in other markets are different than those in
Discreet's current market, so Discreet may not be able to compete favorably in
those markets.

Some of Autodesk's historical product development activities have been performed
by independent firms and contractors, while other technologies are licensed from
third parties. Autodesk generally either owns or licenses the software developed
by third parties. Because talented development personnel are in high demand,
independent developers, including those who have developed products for Autodesk
in the past, may not be able to provide development support to Autodesk in the
future. Similarly, Autodesk may not be able to obtain and renew license
agreements on favorable terms, if at all, and any failure to do so could harm
Autodesk's business.

Autodesk's business strategy has historically depended in large part on its
relationships with third-party developers, who provide products that expand the
functionality of Autodesk's design software. Some developers may elect to
support other products or otherwise experience disruption in product development
and delivery cycles. This disruption in particular markets could negatively
impact these third-party developers and end users, which could harm Autodesk's
business. Further, increased merger and acquisition activity currently
experienced in the technology industry could affect relationships with other
third-party developers and thus harm operating results.

International Operations. Autodesk anticipates that international operations
will continue to account for a significant portion of its consolidated revenues.
Risks inherent in Autodesk's international operations include the following:
unexpected changes in regulatory practices and tariffs; difficulties in staffing
and managing foreign operations; longer collection cycles for accounts
receivable; potential changes in tax laws; greater difficulty in protecting
intellectual property; and the impact of fluctuating exchange rates between the
U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where Autodesk does business.
Autodesk's risk management strategy uses derivative financial instruments in the
form of forward foreign exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging foreign
currency market exposures of underlying assets, liabilities and other
obligations which exist as a part of its ongoing business operations. Autodesk
does not enter into derivative contracts for the purpose of trading or
speculative transactions. Autodesk's international results may also be impacted
by general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. These and
other factors may adversely impact Autodesk's future international operations
and consequently on Autodesk's business as a whole.

Dependence on Distribution Channels. Autodesk sells its software products
primarily to distributors and value-added resellers, or VARs. Autodesk's ability
to effectively distribute products depends in part upon the financial and
business condition of its VAR network. Although Autodesk has not recently
experienced any

                                       21
<PAGE>

material problems with the financial viability of its VAR network, computer
software resellers and distributors are typically not highly capitalized, have
previously experienced difficulties during times of economic contraction and may
do so in the future. In addition, Autodesk's VAR network may be impacted in the
future by the changing distribution models resulting from the Internet. While no
single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Autodesk's consolidated
net revenues in fiscal 2000, 1999 or 1998, the loss of or a significant
reduction in business with any one of Autodesk's major international
distributors or large U.S. resellers could harm Autodesk's business.

Product Returns. With the exception of various European distributors, agreements
with Autodesk's VARs do not contain specific product-return privileges. However,
Autodesk permits its VARs to return product in certain instances, generally
during periods of product transition and during update cycles. Management
anticipates that product returns in future periods will continue to be impacted
by product update cycles, new product releases and software quality.

Autodesk establishes reserves, including reserves for stock balancing and
product rotation, based on estimated future returns of product and after taking
into account channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions
and other factors. While Autodesk maintains strict measures to monitor channel
inventories and to provide appropriate reserves, actual product returns may
differ from its reserve estimates, and such differences could harm Autodesk's
business.

Intellectual Property. Autodesk relies on a combination of patents, copyright
and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual
provisions to protect its proprietary rights. Despite such efforts to protect
its proprietary rights, unauthorized parties from time to time have copied
aspects of Autodesk's software products or have obtained and used information
that Autodesk regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of Autodesk's
software products is time-consuming and costly. While Autodesk has received some
revenues resulting from the unauthorized use of its software products, it is
unable to measure the extent to which piracy of its software products exists,
and software piracy can be expected to be a persistent problem. Autodesk's means
of protecting its proprietary rights may not be adequate, and its competitors
may independently develop similar technology. Autodesk expects that software
product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims as the
number of products and competitors in its industry segments grows and as the
functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Infringement
or invalidity claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement
claims) may be asserted against Autodesk, and any such assertions could harm its
business. Any such claims, whether with or without merit, could be
time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of resources, cause
product shipment delays, or require Autodesk to enter into royalty or licensing
agreements. In addition, such royalty or license agreements, if required, may
not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which would likely harm
Autodesk's business.

Autodesk also relies on certain software that it licenses from third parties,
including software that is integrated with internally developed software and
used in its products to perform key functions. These third-party software
licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, and
the software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the
licensors. The loss of licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and
enhance any such software could result in increased costs, or in delays or
reductions in product shipments until equivalent software could be developed,
identified, licensed and integrated, which could harm Autodesk's business.

Attraction and Retention of Employees. Autodesk's continued growth and success
depends significantly on the continued service of highly skilled employees.
Competition for these employees in today's marketplace, especially in the
technology industries, is intense. Autodesk's ability to attract and retain
employees is dependent on a number of factors including its continued ability to
grant stock incentive awards. The growth of well-financed Internet start-up
companies, particularly in the San Francisco Bay Area, may negatively impact
Autodesk's ability to recruit new personnel or retain existing personnel. The
loss of key employees or inability to recruit new employees would negatively
impact Autodesk's business. In addition, Autodesk may experience increased
compensation costs to attract and retain skilled personnel.

Impact of Year 2000. Prior to January 1, 2000, Autodesk completed its
remediation and testing of systems for Year 2000 readiness. As a result of those
planning and implementation efforts, Autodesk experienced no significant
disruptions in mission critical information technology or other systems and
believes those systems successfully responded to the Year 2000 date change.
Autodesk expensed $1.3 million during fiscal 2000 in connection with remediating
its systems.

                                       22
<PAGE>

Single European Currency. Autodesk is in the process of addressing the issues
raised by the introduction of the Single European Currency ("Euro") as of
January 1, 1999 and during the transition period ending January 1, 2002.
Autodesk will continue to modify the internal systems that will be affected by
this conversion during fiscal 2001, and does not expect the costs of further
system modifications to be material. Autodesk may not be able to complete such
modifications to comply with Euro requirements, which could harm Autodesk's
business. Autodesk is currently evaluating the impact of the introduction of the
Euro on its foreign exchange activities, functional currency designations, and
pricing strategies in the new economic environment. In addition Autodesk faces
risks to the extent that banks and vendors upon whom Autodesk relies and their
suppliers are unable to make appropriate modifications to support Autodesk's
operations with respect to Euro transactions. While Autodesk may continue to
evaluate the impact of the Euro, management does not believe its introduction
will harm Autodesk's business.

Risks Associated with Acquisitions and Investments. Autodesk periodically
acquires or invests in businesses, software products and technologies that are
complementary to Autodesk's business through strategic alliances, debt and
equity investments, and the like. The risks associated with such acquisitions or
investments include, among others, the difficulty of assimilating the operations
and personnel of the companies, the failure to realize anticipated synergies,
and the diversion of management's time and attention. In addition, such
investments and acquisitions may involve significant transaction-related costs.
Autodesk may not be successful in overcoming such risks and such investments and
acquisitions may negatively impact Autodesk's business. In addition, such
investments and acquisitions may contribute to potential fluctuations in
quarterly results of operations due to merger-related costs and charges
associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets
recorded in connection with acquisitions, any of which could negatively impact
results of operations for a given period or cause lack of linearity quarter to
quarter in Autodesk's operating results and financial condition.

Autodesk acquired Discreet with the expectation that the acquisition would
result in beneficial synergies. The failure to achieve such synergies would
likely harm Autodesk's business. The future financial performance of the
Discreet division will depend in part on the successful development,
introduction, and customer acceptance of existing and new or enhanced products.
In addition, for Discreet to achieve sustained growth, the market for its
systems and software must continue to develop, and Autodesk must expand this
market to include additional applications within the film and video industries
and Internet-related businesses and develop or acquire new products for use in
related markets. Autodesk may not be successful in marketing its existing or new
or enhanced products. In addition, as Autodesk enters new markets, distribution
channels, technical requirements and competition may be different from those in
Autodesk's current markets, and Autodesk may not be able to compete favorably.

Autodesk periodically makes investments in related Internet entities, such as
Buzzsaw.com, Inc., which typically do not expect to earn significant revenues in
the initial period of operations and which incur considerable start-up costs.
Such investments may negatively impact Autodesk's results of operations and
financial condition.


ITEM 7A.      QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK


Foreign currency exchange risk
Autodesk's earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in
foreign currency exchange rates. Autodesk's risk management strategy utilizes
forward foreign exchange contracts to manage its exposures of underlying assets,
liabilities, and other obligations which exist as part of its ongoing business
operations. Contracts are primarily denominated in Euro dollars, Swiss francs,
Canadian dollars, British pounds and Japanese yen. Autodesk does not enter into
any foreign exchange derivative instruments for speculative purposes.

A sensitivity analysis was performed on Autodesk's hedging portfolio as of
January 31, 2000. This analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent
appreciation of the U.S. dollar from January 31, 2000 market rates would
increase the fair value of Autodesk's forward contracts by $3.8 million.
Conversely, a hypothetical 10 percent depreciation of the dollar from January
31, 2000 market rates would decrease the fair value of Autodesk's forward
contracts by $3.8 million. Autodesk does not anticipate any material adverse
impact to its consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
flows as a result of these forward foreign exchange contracts.

                                       23
<PAGE>

Interest rate sensitivity
Autodesk had an investment portfolio of fixed income securities, including those
classified as security deposits, of $432.2 million at January 31, 2000. These
securities are subject to interest rate fluctuations and will decrease in market
value if interest rates increase.

A sensitivity analysis was performed on Autodesk's investment portfolio as of
January 31, 2000. This sensitivity analysis is based on a modeling technique
that measures the hypothetical market value changes that would result from a
parallel shift in the yield curve of plus 50, plus 100 or plus 150 basis points
over 6-month and 12-month time horizons. For the 6-month time horizon the market
value changes for a 50, 100, or 150 basis point increase were ($1.9) million,
($4.1) million and ($6.2) million, respectively. For the 12-month time horizon
the market value changes for a 50, 100 or 150 basis point increase were ($1.6)
million, ($3.3) million and ($5.0) million, respectively

Autodesk does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment
portfolio to manage interest rate risk. Autodesk places its investments in
instruments that meet high credit quality standards, as specified in its
investment policy guidelines, which limits the amount of credit exposure to any
one issue, issuer or type of instrument.

                                       24
<PAGE>

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                                AUTODESK, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                     (in thousands, except per share data)

                                              Fiscal year ended January 31,

                                       -----------------------------------------
                                          2000             1999          1998
                                       ----------     ----------     -----------

Net revenues                             $820,182     $ 871,879      $ 768,684
                                       ----------    -----------     ---------

Costs and expenses:

    Cost of revenues                      143,871       134,247        133,371

    Marketing and sales                   312,124       295,890        271,428

    Research and development              163,985       157,080        136,816

    General and administrative            134,066       112,770         83,713

    Amortization of goodwill and
      purchased intangibles                30,625        28,716         21,957

    Nonrecurring charges                   34,748        19,694         26,810

    Litigation accrual reversal                --       (18,605)          (405)
                                       ----------    ----------     ----------

                                          819,419       729,792        673,690
                                       ----------    ----------     ----------

Income from operations                        763       142,087         94,994

Interest and other income, net             23,157        17,134         11,710
                                       ----------    ----------     ----------

Income before income taxes                 23,920       159,221        106,704

Provision for income taxes                 14,112        62,089         50,489
                                       ----------    ----------     ----------

Net income                              $   9,808     $  97,132      $  56,215
                                       ==========    ==========     ==========

Basic net income per share             $     0.16    $     1.72     $     1.00
                                       ==========    ==========     ==========

Diluted net income per share           $     0.16    $     1.64     $     0.94
                                       ==========    ==========     ==========

Shares used in computing basic net
  income per share                         60,328        56,394         56,340
                                       ==========    ==========     ==========

Shares used in computing diluted net
  income per share                         61,406        59,141         60,022
                                       ==========    ==========     ==========



                             See accompanying notes.

                                       25
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                    ASSETS
                                (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    January 31, 2000      January 31, 1999
                                                                    ----------------      ----------------
<S>                                                                 <C>                   <C>
Current assets:

    Cash and cash equivalents                                         $       108,641         $     258,941

    Marketable securities                                                     250,290               102,756

    Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful                        110,839
    accounts of $10,652 ($10,642 in 1999)                                                           114,901

    Inventories                                                                19,264                23,169

    Deferred income taxes                                                      27,670                20,323

    Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                  28,555                24,325
                                                                      ---------------         -------------

        Total current assets                                                  545,259               544,415
                                                                      ---------------         -------------

Marketable securities                                                         181,992                66,265

Computer equipment, furniture and leasehold
  improvements, at cost:

    Computer equipment and furniture                                          142,528               140,513

    Leasehold improvements                                                     22,723                24,767

    Less accumulated depreciation                                            (123,367)             (116,625)
                                                                      ----------------        -------------

        Net computer equipment, furniture and leasehold
          improvements                                                         41,884                48,655

Purchased technologies and capitalized software, net of
 accumulated amortization of $68,620 ($48,961 in 1999)                         29,029                40,630

Goodwill, net                                                                  75,489                85,546

Deferred income taxes                                                          27,818                12,147

Other assets                                                                    5,855                25,602
                                                                      ---------------         -------------

                                                                      $       907,326         $     823,260
                                                                      ===============         =============
</TABLE>

                               See accompanying notes.

                                       26
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                     LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                     (in thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   January 31, 2000     January 31, 1999
                                                                   ----------------     ----------------
<S>                                                                <C>                  <C>
Current liabilities:

    Accounts payable                                               $     45,310         $       49,053

    Accrued compensation                                                 50,448                 49,592

    Accrued income taxes                                                 88,006                 96,731

    Deferred revenues                                                    33,604                 24,833

    Other accrued liabilities                                            82,024                 58,905
                                                                   ------------         --------------

        Total current liabilities                                       299,392                279,114
                                                                   ------------         --------------

Deferred income taxes                                                     4,380                  3,333

Other liabilities                                                         1,255                  3,486

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders' equity:

    Common stock, $0.01 par value; 250,000 shares
    authorized; 59,241 and 57,221 shares outstanding at
    January 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively                             561,814                470,801

    Accumulated other comprehensive loss                                (14,822)               (14,132)

    Deferred compensation                                                (1,338)                  (551)

    Retained earnings                                                    56,645                 81,209
                                                                   -------------        --------------

        Total stockholders' equity                                      602,299                537,327
                                                                   -------------        --------------

                                                                   $    907,326         $      823,260
                                                                   =============        ==============
</TABLE>

                            See accompanying notes.

                                       27
<PAGE>


                                AUTODESK, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                (in thousands)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                    Fiscal year ended January 31,

                                                                             -----------------------------------------------
                                                                                 2000              1999              1998
                                                                              -----------    --------------    -------------

    Operating activities
<S>                                                                          <C>                 <C>            <C>
    Net income                                                                $    9,808         $ 97,132       $     56,215

    Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating
    activities:

    Charge for acquired in-process research and development                        4,170           13,100             29,102

    Depreciation and amortization                                                 79,748           80,782             66,331

    Litigation and related interest accrual reversal                                  --          (20,900)                --

    Reversal of restructuring reserve, net                                        (1,630)          (1,504)            (1,504)

    Net gain on disposition of business unit                                          --           (1,307)                --

    Net gain on sale of investment                                                    --           (2,500)            (2,500)

    Loss on investment                                                             4,776               --                 --

    Write-off of assets for restructuring                                             --               --                610

    Net loss on fixed asset disposals                                              5,894            4,032                 --

    Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of business combinations:

         Settlement of class action litigation                                        --               --            (10,800)

         Insurance proceeds related to class action litigation                        --               --              3,459

         Accounts receivable                                                       4,985          (24,486)             4,503

         Inventories                                                               1,980             (872)             3,913

         Deferred income taxes                                                   (21,264)          11,940             (7,177)

         Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                (4,167)          (4,604)             1,266

         Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                 27,403            7,181             25,888

         Accrued income taxes                                                     (8,418)          14,559              6,413
                                                                                --------        ---------          ---------
    Net cash provided by operating activities                                    103,285          172,533            175,719
                                                                                --------        ---------          ---------
</TABLE>

                                       28
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (Continued)
                                (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              2000              1999              1998
                                                                         ------------        -----------     -------------
    <S>                                                                  <C>                 <C>             <C>
    Investing activities

    Purchases of available-for-sale marketable securities                    (3,791,568)         (838,591)        (1,102,015)

    Maturities of available-for-sale marketable securities                    3,528,305           874,800          1,126,174

    Business combinations, net of cash acquired                                 (26,596)          (69,279)           (16,108)

    Capital and other expenditures                                              (14,932)          (42,809)           (24,538)

    Proceeds from disposition of fixed assets                                     5,587             2,719                818

    Proceeds from disposition of business unit                                        -             5,137                  -

    Proceeds from sale of investment                                                  -             2,500              2,500

    Purchases of software technologies and capitalization of
    software development costs                                                   (5,150)           (5,979)           (19,833)

    Acquisition of other assets                                                       -            (7,537)                 -
                                                                         ---------------    -------------      --------------

    Net cash used in investing activities                                      (304,354)          (79,039)           (33,002)
                                                                         ---------------    -------------      --------------

    Financing activities

    Proceeds from issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs               165,222           106,431             95,247

    Repurchase of common stock                                                  (90,072)          (48,866)          (174,907)

    Dividends paid                                                              (14,581)          (11,722)           (11,290)

    (Decrease) increase in credit line                                           (1,921)            2,643              2,713

    Notes payable and borrowings (repayments)                                      (704)            1,828                  -
                                                                         ---------------    -------------      -------------

    Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities                          57,944            50,314            (88,237)
                                                                         ---------------    -------------      -------------


    Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                 (7,495)            6,375            (8,414)

    Adjustment to conform fiscal year of Discreet Logic                             320           (33,810)                -
                                                                         ---------------    -------------      ------------

    Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                       (150,300)          116,393            46,066

    Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                              258,941           142,548            96,482
                                                                         ---------------    -------------      ------------

    Cash and cash equivalents at end of period                                $ 108,641         $ 258,941       $   142,548
                                                                         ===============    =============      ============


    Supplemental noncash information:

    Common stock received in relation to the equity collar                    $       -         $   4,265       $         -
                                                                         ===============    =============      =============

    Common stock issued in connection with the acquisition of
    Softdesk                                                                  $       -         $       -       $    92,021
                                                                         ===============    =============      =============
</TABLE>

                             See accompanying notes.

                                       29
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                (in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                Accumulated
                                             Common stock                          other                                  Total
                                         ---------------------
                                                               Comprehensive    comprehensive  Deferred    Retained    stockholders'
                                          Shares     Amount        income          income    compensation  earnings      equity
                                         ---------  ---------- ---------------  -------------------------------------  ------------
<S>                                      <C>        <C>        <C>              <C>          <C>           <C>         <C>
Balances, January 31, 1997                54,387     $ 228,167                   $ (10,663)      $ (674)     $ 71,165   $ 287,995
Common shares issued under stock
option and stock purchase plans            2,889        65,490                                                             65,490
Tax effect of stock options                             16,230                                                             16,230
Grant of compensatory stock options                        836                                     (836)
Compensation expense related to
stock options                                                                                       603                       603
Reclassification of put warrants                         9,870                                                 54,630      64,500
Shares issued in connection with
acquisitions                               3,083       102,670                                                            102,670
Shares issued to Intel,
net-Discreet Logic                           213        13,527                                                             13,527
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                                       $56,215                                       56,215      56,215
Other comprehensive loss, net
of tax:
   Unrealized gains on available-
   for-sale securities, net of                                       362                                                      362
   reclassification adjustments
   Foreign currency translation
   adjustment                                                     (9,801)                                                  (9,801)
                                                                --------
   Other comprehensive loss                                       (9,439)           (9,439)
                                                                --------
   Comprehensive income                                         $ 46,776
 Dividends paid                                                                                               (11,290)    (11,290)
 Repurchase of common shares              (5,333)      (29,726)                                              (145,181)   (174,907)
                                         -------    ----------                  -------------------------------------  ----------

 Balances, January 31, 1998               55,239       407,064                     (20,102)        (907)       25,539     411,594
 Common shares issued under stock          3,224        76,550                                                             76,550
 option and stock purchase plans
 Tax effect of stock options                            15,469                                                             15,469
 Cancellation of compensatory
 stock options                                             (25)                                      25
 Compensation expense related to
 stock options                                                                                      331                       331
 Comprehensive income:
 Net income                                                      $97,132                                       97,132      97,132
 Other comprehensive income, net
 of tax:
   Unrealized gains on available-
   for-sale securities, net of                                       198                                                      198
   reclassification adjustments
   Foreign currency translation
   adjustment                                                      5,772                                                    5,772
                                                               ---------
   Other comprehensive income                                      5,970             5,970
                                                               ---------
   Comprehensive income                                        $ 103,102
 Adjustment to conform fiscal
 year of Discreet Logic                                                                                        (9,131)     (9,131)
 Dividends paid                                                                                               (11,722)    (11,722)
 Repurchase of common shares              (1,242)      (28,257)                                               (20,609)    (48,866)
                                         -------    ----------                  -------------------------------------  ----------

 Balances, January 31, 1999               57,221       470,801                     (14,132)        (551)       81,209     537,327
</TABLE>

                                       30
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Continued)
                                (In thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               Accumulated
                                            Common stock                          other                                  Total
                                        ---------------------
                                                              Comprehensive    comprehensive  Deferred    Retained    stockholders'
                                         Shares     Amount        income          income    compensation  earnings      equity
                                        ---------- ---------- ---------------  -------------------------------------  ------------
<S>                                     <C>        <C>        <C>              <C>          <C>           <C>         <C>
Balances, January 31, 1999               57,221     $ 470,801                   $ (14,132)      $ (551)     $ 81,209   $ 537,327
Common shares issued under stock
option and stock purchase plans           1,915        42,819                                                             42,819
Tax effect of stock options                             4,642                                                              4,642
Shares issued                             3,000       117,467                                                            117,467
Compensation expense related to
stock options                                           1,400                                     (787)                      613
Comprehensive income:
Net income                                                        9,808                                        9,808       9,808
Other comprehensive income, net
of tax:
   Unrealized gains on
   available-for-sale securities,
   net of reclassification adjustments                           (2,145)
   Foreign currency translation
   adjustment                                                     1,455
                                                              ---------
   Other comprehensive income                                      (690)             (690)                                  (690)
                                                              ---------
   Comprehensive income                                         $ 9,118
Adjustment to conform fiscal year
of Discreet Logic                                                                                             (5,034)     (5,034)
Dividends paid                                                                                               (14,581)    (14,581)
Repurchase of common shares              (2,895)      (75,315)                                               (14,757)    (90,072)
                                        -------    ----------                  -------------------------------------  ----------
Balances, January 31, 2000               59,241     $ 561,814                   $ (14,822)    $ (1,338)     $ 56,645   $ 602,299
                                        =======    ==========                  =====================================  ==========
</TABLE>

                            See accompanying notes.

                                       31
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               January 31, 2000


Note 1. Autodesk and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Autodesk and Basis of Presentation

Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk") is the world's leading supplier of PC and web design
software and digital content creation tools.

On March 16, 1999, Autodesk acquired Discreet Logic Inc. ("Discreet") by issuing
approximately 10.0 million shares of Autodesk common stock in exchange for
Discreet's outstanding common stock. Discreet develops, assembles, markets and
supports nonlinear digital systems and software for creating, editing and
compositing imagery for film, video and HDTV.

Autodesk accounted for this acquisition under the pooling of interests method.
Accordingly, all prior period consolidated financial statements presented have
been restated to include the combined results of operations, financial position
and cash flows as though Discreet had always been part of Autodesk. Separate
results of the combined entities for the three months ended April 30, 1999 and
the fiscal years ended January 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:

     (In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Three months
                                              ended
                                         April 30, 1999
                                          (unaudited)         1999            1998
                                          -----------         ----            ----
     <S>                                   <C>             <C>            <C>
     Net revenues:
          Autodesk                         $  170.0        $  740.2       $  617.1
          Discreet                             24.9           131.7          151.6
                                           --------        --------       --------
                                           $  194.9        $  871.9       $  768.7
                                           ========        ========       ========

     Net income (loss):
          Autodesk                         $   (7.3)       $   90.6       $   45.2
          Discreet                             (9.8)            6.5           11.0
                                           --------        --------       --------
                                           $  (17.1)       $   97.1       $   56.2
                                           ========        ========       ========
</TABLE>

Prior to the acquisition, Discreet's fiscal year ended on June 30. As a result
of differing year-ends, Autodesk's consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal years ended January 31, 1999
and 1998 were combined with Discreet's financial statements for the twelve
months ended December 31, 1998 and the fiscal year ended June 30, 1998,
respectively. As such, Discreet's operating results for the period from January
1, 1998 to June 30, 1998 were duplicated in the accompanying consolidated
statement of operations for the year ended January 31, 1999 and 1998. Discreet's
net revenues and net income for this six-month period were $75.9 million and
$9.1 million, respectively. The net income was recorded as an adjustment to
retained earnings during fiscal 1999.

Additionally, Discreet's January 1999 results have been excluded from the
accompanying statements of operations as a result of changing Discreet's
year-end to January 31. In January 1999, Discreet recognized net revenues of
$3.8 million and incurred a net loss of $5.0 million. The loss was recorded as
an adjustment to retained earnings during fiscal 2000.

On April 22, 1999, in an acquisition accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting, Autodesk acquired VISION* Solutions ("VISION") from MCI Systemhouse
Corporation, a subsidiary of MCI WorldCom Inc. Accordingly, VISION's operating
results, which are not material in relation to those of Autodesk, have been
included in Autodesk's consolidated financial statements since the date of
acquisition.

Principles of Consolidation

                                       32
<PAGE>

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
Autodesk and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to
the fiscal 1999 and 1998 consolidated financial statements to conform to the
fiscal 2000 presentation.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in Autodesk's consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.

Foreign Currency Translation

The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated from their
respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars at the rates in effect at the
balance sheet date, and revenue and expense amounts are translated at weighted
average rates during the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are
reflected as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Gains and losses
resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in interest and other
income.

Forward Foreign Exchange Contracts ("Forwards")

Autodesk hedges a portion of its exposure in certain receivables and payables
denominated in foreign currencies using forwards in European and Asian
currencies. Gains and losses associated with exchange rate fluctuations on
forwards are recorded in interest and other income and offset corresponding
gains and losses on the assets and liabilities being hedged. The costs of
forwards are amortized on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract as
interest and other income.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Autodesk considers all highly liquid investments with insignificant interest
rate risk and original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are recorded at cost, which approximates fair
value.

Marketable Securities

Marketable securities are stated at fair value. Marketable securities maturing
within one year that are not restricted are classified as current assets.

Autodesk determines the appropriate classification of its marketable securities
at the time of purchase and reevaluates such classification as of each balance
sheet date. Autodesk has classified all of its marketable securities as
available-for-sale and carries such securities at fair value, with unrealized
gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders' equity until
disposition.

Concentration of Credit Risk

Autodesk places its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities with and in
the custody of financial institutions with high credit standing and, by policy,
limits the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security and
issuer.

Autodesk's accounts receivable are derived from software sales to a large number
of resellers and distributors in the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific
region. Autodesk performs ongoing evaluations of its customers' financial
condition and limits the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary, but
generally requires no collateral. No single customer accounted for more than 10
percent of consolidated net revenues in fiscal 2000, 1999 or 1998.

Inventories

                                       33
<PAGE>

Inventories, consisting principally of disks, compact disks (CDs), user manuals
and hardware purchased for resale are stated at the lower of cost (determined on
the first-in, first-out method) or market.

Computer Equipment, Furniture and Leasehold Improvements

Computer equipment and furniture are depreciated using the straight-line and
declining balance methods over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which
range from two to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful life or the lease
term. Depreciation expense was $30.2 million, $33.0 million and $29.9 million,
in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Purchased Technologies and Capitalized Software

Costs incurred in the initial design phase of software development are expensed
as incurred. Once the point of technological feasibility is reached, production
costs (programming and testing) are capitalized. Certain acquired
software-technology rights are also capitalized. Capitalized software costs are
amortized ratably, as revenues are recognized, but not less than on a
straight-line basis over two- to seven-year periods. Amortization expense, which
is included as a component of cost of revenues, was $18.9 million, $19.1 million
and $14.4 million in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The actual lives
of Autodesk's purchased technologies or capitalized software may differ from
management's estimates, and such differences could cause carrying amounts of
these assets to be reduced materially.

Other Intangible Assets

Amortization of purchased intangibles and goodwill is provided on a
straight-line basis over the respective useful lives of the assets, which range
from three to ten years. Accumulated amortization was $91.9 million, $60.9
million and $39.6 million in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

As circumstances dictate, Autodesk assesses the recoverability of its other
intangible assets by comparing the undiscounted net cash flows associated with
such assets against their respective carrying values. Impairment, if any, is
based on the excess of the carrying value over the fair value.

Employee Stock Compensation

As permitted by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), Autodesk measures
compensation expense for its stock-based employee compensation plans using the
intrinsic method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25"). In accordance with SFAS
123, Autodesk has provided in Note 8 the pro forma disclosures of the effect on
net income and earnings per share if SFAS 123 had been applied in measuring
compensation expense for all periods presented.

Revenue Recognition

Autodesk's revenue recognition policy is in compliance with the provisions of
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position
97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition" ("SOP 97-2"), as amended by Statement of
Position 98-4 ("SOP 98-4"). Revenue from software licenses and the related
hardware and peripherals is recognized at the time of shipment, provided that no
significant vendor obligations exist and collection of the resulting receivable
is deemed probable. Revenues related to customer consulting and training are
recognized as the services are performed. Revenue from post contract customer
support and other related services is recognized ratably as the obligations are
fulfilled, or when the related services are performed.

With the exception of certain European distributors, agreements with Autodesk's
value-added resellers ("VARs") do not contain specific product-return
privileges. However, Autodesk permits its VARs to return product in certain
instances, generally during periods of product transition and during update
cycles.

Autodesk establishes allowances for product returns, including allowances for
stock balancing and product rotation, based on estimated future returns of
product and after taking into consideration channel inventory levels at its
resellers, the timing of new product introductions and other factors. These
allowances are recorded

                                       34
<PAGE>

as direct reductions of revenue and accounts receivable. While Autodesk
maintains strict measures to monitor channel inventories and to provide
appropriate allowances, actual product returns may differ from Autodesk's
estimates, and such differences could be material to the consolidated financial
statements.

Advertising Expenses

Advertising costs are expensed the first time the advertising takes place. Total
advertising expenses incurred were $18.3 million, $13.1 million and $14.4
million during fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

Autodesk has until fiscal year 2002 to adopt the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"), which was issued in June 1998. This
Statement requires Autodesk to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at
fair value. Autodesk is currently evaluating the impact of SFAS 133 on its
financial statements and related disclosures.

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, the Staff of the Securities and
Exchange Commission issued two Staff Accounting Bulletins, involving the
accounting for restructuring charges and revenue recognition. Management
believes that Autodesk's practices and policies are in compliance with the Staff
Accounting Bulletins and that the impact will not have a material impact on
Autodesk's financial position or results of operations.


Note 2. Net Income Per Share

Basic net income per share is calculated using the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding. Diluted net income per share is computed using the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding and the dilutive common
stock equivalents outstanding during the period. A reconciliation of the
numerators and denominators used in the basic and diluted net income per share
amounts follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        (In thousands)                                                                  Year ended January 31,
                                                                                        ----------------------

                                                                                   2000           1999           1998
                                                                                   ----           ----           ----
        <S>                                                                       <C>           <C>            <C>
        Numerator:
        Numerator for basic and diluted net income per share--net income          $ 9,808       $ 97,132       $ 56,215
                                                                                  =======       ========       ========

        Denominator:
        Denominator for basic net income per share--weighted average
        shares                                                                     60,328         56,394         56,340

        Effect of dilutive common stock options                                     1,078          2,747          3,682
                                                                                  -------       --------        -------

        Denominator for diluted net income per share                               61,406         59,141         60,022
                                                                                  =======       ========        =======
</TABLE>

For fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, options to purchase 8.3 million, 3.2 million and
1.9 million shares, respectively, have been excluded from the computation of
diluted net income per share. Such options were excluded because the options had
exercise prices greater than the average market prices of common stock during
the respective periods, and, therefore were anti-dilutive.

Note 3. Financial Instruments

Fair Values of Financial Instruments

Estimated fair values of financial instruments are based on quoted market
prices. The carrying amounts and fair value of Autodesk's financial instruments
are as follows:

                                       35
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             (In thousands)                        January 31, 2000                    January 31, 1999
                                                   ----------------                    ----------------
                                                 Cost          Fair value          Cost            Fair value
                                            --------------   --------------   ---------------    ---------------
   <S>                                      <C>              <C>              <C>                <C>
   Cash and cash equivalents                $      108,641   $      108,641   $       258,941    $       258,941

   Marketable securities                           434,296          432,282           167,846            169,021

   Forward foreign currency contracts                    8                8               (80)               (80)
</TABLE>

Forwards

Autodesk utilizes forwards to reduce its foreign exchange rate risk. The
forwards, which have average maturities of 60 days or less, are used to hedge
material foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. They are not
used for trading or speculative purposes. Forwards are marked-to-market at the
end of each period, with gains and losses recognized as other income or expense
to offset the gains or losses resulting from the settlement of the underlying
foreign currency denominated receivables and payables.

The notional amounts of foreign currency contracts were $37.6 million and $31.2
million at January 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. While the contract or
notional amount is often used to express the volume of foreign exchange
contracts, the amounts potentially subject to credit risk are generally limited
to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the
agreements exceed the obligations of Autodesk to the counterparties. Gains
resulting from foreign currency transactions were not material in fiscal 2000,
1999 and 1998.

Marketable Securities

Marketable securities include the following available-for-sale securities at
January 31, 2000 and 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 (In thousands)                 January 31, 2000
                                ----------------
                                Cost                  Gross unrealized       Gross unrealized       Estimated fair
                                ----                  ----------------       ----------------       --------------
                                                      gains                  losses                 value
                                                      -----                  ------                 -----
 <S>                            <C>                   <C>                    <C>                    <C>
 Short-term:
    Municipal Bonds             $       138,084       $            87        $           (3)        $       138,168
    Preferred Stock                      37,200                    --                     --                 37,200
    Money Market                         60,945                    --                     --                 60,945
    Agency
    Securities                           13,996                    --                   (19)                 13,977
                                ---------------       ---------------        ---------------        ---------------
                                        250,225                    87                   (22)                250,290
                                ---------------       ---------------        ---------------        ---------------
 Long-term:
    Municipal Bonds                     165,663                    --                (1,997)                163,666
    Treasury Notes                        7,991                    --                     --                  7,991
    Corporate Bonds                       1,500                    --                     --                  1,500
    Asset Backed
    Securities                            2,003                    --                     --                  2,003
    Agency
    Securities                            6,914                    --                   (82)                  6,832
                                ---------------       ---------------        ---------------        ---------------
                                        184,071                    --                (2,079)                181,992
                                ---------------       ---------------        ---------------        ---------------

                                $       434,296       $            87        $       (2,101)        $       432,282
                                ===============       ===============        ===============        ===============
</TABLE>

                                       36
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 (In thousands)                 January 31, 1999
                                ----------------
                                Cost                  Gross unrealized       Gross unrealized
                                ----                  ----------------       ----------------
                                                      gains                  losses                 Estimated fair value
                                                      -----                  ------                 --------------------
<S>                             <C>                   <C>                    <C>                    <C>
Short-term:
    Municipal Bonds             $        90,655       $           157        $            --        $        90,812
    Preferred Stock                      10,000                    --                     --                 10,000
    Treasury Bills                        1,944                    --                     --                  1,944
                                ---------------       ---------------        ---------------        ---------------
                                        102,599                   157                     --                102,756
 Long-term:
    Municipal Bonds                      65,247                 1,018                     --                 66,265
                                ---------------       ---------------        ---------------        ---------------
                                $       167,846       $         1,175        $            --        $       169,021
                                ===============       ===============        ===============        ===============
</TABLE>

The contractual maturities of Autodesk's long-term marketable securities at
January 31, 2000 were as follows: $43.6 million between one and two years; $59.0
million maturing in three years; $70.3 million maturing in four to five years;
and $9.1 million beyond five years. Expected maturities may differ from
contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may have the right
to prepay or call obligations without prepayment penalties. Realized gains and
losses on available-for-sale securities were immaterial in fiscal 2000, 1999 and
1998. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification
method.

Note 4. Income Taxes

The provision for income taxes consists of the following:

     (In thousands)                         Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                            -----------------------------

                                           2000          1999           1998
                                           ----          ----           ----
     Federal:
        Current                          $ 17,059      $ 30,708        $ 33,361
        Deferred                          (13,027)        7,773          (7,385)
     State:
        Current                             2,068         3,627           6,043
        Deferred                           (1,393)        1,229          (1,245)
     Foreign:
        Current                            14,946        17,029          19,106
        Deferred                           (5,541)        1,723             609
                                         --------      --------        --------

                                         $ 14,112      $ 62,089        $ 50,489
                                         ========      ========        ========

The principal reasons that the aggregate income tax provisions differ from the
U.S. statutory rate are as follows:

                                       37
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In thousands)                                                           Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                                         -----------------------------

                                                                       2000           1999           1998
                                                                       ----           ----           ----
<S>                                                                  <C>           <C>            <C>
Income tax provision at statutory rate                               $ 8,372       $ 55,727       $ 37,346
Foreign income taxed at rates different from the U.S.                 (2,679)        (1,994)           528
statutory rate
State income taxes, net of federal benefit                               576          3,041          2,727
Tax-exempt interest                                                   (3,165)        (2,087)        (2,031)
Acquired in-process research and development                             645          3,973          9,348
Goodwill amortization                                                  5,945          7,478          6,724
Effect of not benefiting foreign subsidiaries tax losses                  --          2,304          1,599
Utilization of net operating losses not previously benefited              --         (3,786)        (4,839)
Research and development tax credit benefit                           (2,438)        (2,521)        (1,802)
Non-deductible acquisition costs                                       6,473             --             --
Other                                                                    383            (46)           889
                                                                    --------       --------       --------
                                                                    $ 14,112       $ 62,089       $ 50,489
                                                                    ========       ========       ========
</TABLE>

                                       38
<PAGE>

Significant components of Autodesk's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as
follows:

(In thousands)                                           January 31,
                                                         ---------

                                                            2000         1999
                                                            ----         ----
     Purchased technology and capitalized software        $ 10,880     $ 13,580
     Reserves for product returns and bad debts              9,359        6,902
     Tax loss carryforwards                                  5,720        5,676
     Accrued compensation and benefits                       4,966        4,705
     Fixed assets                                            9,371        3,249
     Accrued state income taxes                                331          410
     Research and development credit carryforwards          11,325           --
     Inventory reserves                                      1,319        1,039
     Other accruals not currently deductible for tax         8,947        4,775
     Other                                                   4,945        6,050
                                                          --------     --------
     Total deferred tax assets                              67,163       46,386
     Less: Valuation allowance                             (10,037)     (11,231)
                                                          --------     --------
     Net deferred tax assets                                57,126       35,155
                                                          --------     --------

     Unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries            (6,018)      (6,018)
                                                          --------     --------
     Total deferred tax liability                           (6,018)      (6,018)
                                                          --------     --------
     Net deferred tax assets                               $51,108     $ 29,137
                                                          ========     ========

The tax benefit associated with dispositions from employee stock plans reduced
taxes currently payable for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998 by $4.6 million, $15.5
million and $16.2 million, respectively. No provision has been made for federal
income taxes on unremitted earnings of certain of Autodesk's foreign
subsidiaries (cumulative $266.0 million at January 31, 2000) because Autodesk
plans to reinvest all such earnings for the foreseeable future. At January 31,
2000, the unrecognized deferred tax liability for these earnings was
approximately $77.0 million. Foreign pretax income was $16.6 million, $110.1
million and $57.5 million, in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
valuation allowance decreased by $1.2 million and increased by $2.8 million in
fiscal 2000 and 1999, respectively.

Autodesk's U.S. income tax returns for the fiscal years ended January 31, 1992
through 1996, have been examined by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). On
August 27, 1997, the IRS issued a Notice for Deficiency proposing increases to
the amount of Autodesk's federal income taxes for fiscal years 1992 and 1993. On
November 25, 1997, Autodesk filed a petition with the United States Tax Court to
contest these alleged tax deficiencies. In July 1999, Autodesk made tax payments
with respect to all issues addressed as part of the IRS audit. As a result,
Autodesk has either resolved all matters or made prepayments with respect to
remaining outstanding issues for the tax years ended January 31, 1992 through
1996. The resolution of any remaining adjustments that may ultimately result
from these examinations are not expected to have a material adverse impact on
Autodesk's consolidated results of operations or its financial position.

Cash payments for income taxes were approximately $37.6 million, $20.9 million
and $35.8 million for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Autodesk has $17.5 million of cumulative tax loss carryforwards, which may be
available to reduce future income tax liabilities in certain jurisdictions. The
tax loss carryforwards will expire beginning January 31, 2007. Autodesk has
recorded a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets including the
tax benefit of these tax loss carryforwards due to the uncertainty of their
realizability.

Autodesk has $11.3 million of cumulative research tax credit carryforwards,
which may be available to reduce future income tax liabilities in the U.S. The
credit carryforwards will expire beginning January 31, 2019.

Note 5. Borrowing Arrangements

Autodesk has a U.S. line of credit permitting short-term, unsecured borrowings
of up to $40.0 million, which may be used from time to time to facilitate
short-term cash flow. At January 31, 2000, there were no borrowings outstanding
under this agreement, which expires in January 2001.

                                       39
<PAGE>

Additionally, Autodesk has a revolving demand line of credit with a bank, under
which it may borrow up to Cdn$5.0 million (U.S.$3.5 million at January 31,
2000). The amount available under the revolving line of credit was reduced by
letters of guarantee totaling Cdn$0.3 million (U.S.$0.2 million at January 31,
2000).

Note 6. Commitments and Contingencies

Autodesk leases office space and equipment under noncancelable operating lease
agreements. The leases generally provide that Autodesk pay taxes, insurance and
maintenance expenses related to the leased assets. Future minimum lease payments
for fiscal years ended January 31 are as follows: $24.1 million in 2001; $17.1
million in 2002; $13.4 million in 2003; $10.0 million in 2004; $8.8 million in
2005; and $21.1 million thereafter.

Rent expense was $30.2 million, $25.7 million and $19.7 million in fiscal 2000,
1999 and 1998, respectively.

Autodesk is a party to various legal proceedings arising from the normal course
of business activities. In management's opinion, resolution of these matters is
not expected to have a material adverse impact on Autodesk's consolidated
results of operations or its financial position. However, depending on the
amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially affect
Autodesk's future results of operations or cash flows in a particular period.

Note 7. Stockholders' Equity

Preferred Stock

Under Autodesk's Certificate of Incorporation, 2.0 million shares of preferred
stock are authorized. At January 31, 2000, there were no preferred shares issued
or outstanding. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue the preferred
stock in one or more series and to fix rights, preferences, privileges and
restrictions, including dividends, and the number of shares constituting any
series or the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by
the stockholders.

Common Stock Repurchase Programs

During fiscal years 2000, 1999 and 1998, Autodesk repurchased and retired a
total of 2.9 million, 1.2 million and 5.3 million shares of its common stock at
average repurchase prices of $31.11, $39.34 and $32.80, respectively. The
primary purpose of the stock repurchase programs was to help offset the dilution
to earnings per share caused by the issuance of stock under Autodesk's employee
stock plans.

In November, 1999, Autodesk announced a plan to repurchase up to 8.0 million
shares of Autodesk's common stock. The number of shares acquired and the timing
of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market
conditions and the trading price of Autodesk common stock. By January 31, 2000,
Autodesk repurchased and retired 2.9 million shares, which were acquired in the
open market. In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000, Autodesk
entered into a series of equity collar contracts with a financial institution
with respect to 1.8 million shares of its common stock by selling put options
(which entitle the holder of the option to sell shares to Autodesk at a
specified price) and purchasing call options (which entitle Autodesk to purchase
shares of common stock from the seller of the option at a specified price).
There was no exchange of cash in placement of the contracts. The put and call
options, which expire between June and December, 2000, give Autodesk a choice of
physical, cash and net share settlement methods.

In fiscal 1999 and 1998, Autodesk used a combination of open market purchases
and equity collar contracts to repurchase Autodesk's common stock. These share
repurchases were part of an on-going and systematic repurchase plan that was
approved by Autodesk's Board of Directors. In August 1998, in connection with
the acquisition of Discreet, the Board of Directors rescinded its authorization
and terminated Autodesk's repurchase plans that existed at the time.

Dividends

                                       40
<PAGE>

During fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, Autodesk paid annual dividends of $0.24,
$0.20 and $0.20 per share, respectively. Fiscal year 2000 dividends were paid at
a rate of $0.06 each quarter.

                                       41
<PAGE>

Note 8. Stock Compensation and Employee Benefit Plans

Stock Option Plans

Incentive and nonqualified stock options may be granted to officers, employees,
directors and consultants. Options vest over periods of one to five years and
generally have terms of up to ten years. The exercise price of the stock options
is generally at least equal to the fair market value of the stock on the grant
date. A summary of stock option activity is as follows:

        (Shares in thousands)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                             Weighted
                                                                         Number of          average price
                                                                          shares             per share
                                                                       -----------         --------------
        <S>                                                            <C>                 <C>
        Options outstanding at January 31, 1997                             13,541                $ 27.44
                 Granted                                                     3,709                  36.47
                 Assumed via acquisitions                                      306                  23.72
                 Exercised                                                  (2,387)                 22.82
                 Canceled                                                     (952)                 33.13
                                                                       -----------

        Options outstanding at January 31, 1998                             14,217                $ 30.10
                 Granted                                                     3,320                  36.49
                 Exercised                                                  (2,595)                 24.74
                 Canceled                                                   (1,020)                 34.96
                                                                       -----------

        Options outstanding at January 31, 1999                             13,922                $ 32.27
                 Granted                                                     5,984                  26.70
                 Exercised                                                  (1,087)                 21.06
                 Canceled                                                   (2,902)                 34.65
                                                                       -----------

        Options outstanding at January 31, 2000                             15,917                $ 30.47

        Options exercisable at January 31, 2000                              7,662                $ 31.20

        Options available for grant at January 31, 2000                      2,685                     --
</TABLE>

The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and
exercisable at January 31, 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Options Exercisable                          Options Outstanding
                                    ---------------------------------   -------------------------------------------------
                                    Number of         Weighted          Number of        Weighted          Weighted
                                    shares            average           shares (in       average           average
                                    (in thousands)    exercise price    thousands)       contractual       exercise price
                                                                                         life (in years)
                                    --------------    ---------------   --------------   ---------------   --------------
<S>                                 <C>               <C>               <C>              <C>               <C>
Range of per share exercise
prices:
$ 0.01 - 23.87                               2,305    $    19.27                 3,021               4.5   $     19.60
$ 24.13 - 33.34                              2,213         28.76                 7,967               8.2         28.05
$ 33.87 - 47.73                              2,239         37,96                 3,929               7.6         38.34
$ 47.93 - 49.25                                905         50.80                 1,000               5.9         51.67
                                               ---    ----------                 -----                     -----------

                                             7,662    $    31.20                15,917               7.2   $     30.47
</TABLE>

These options will expire if not exercised at specific dates ranging from
February 2000 to January 2010. A total of 18.6 million shares of Autodesk's
common stock have been reserved for future issuance under existing stock option
programs.

                                       42
<PAGE>

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

Under Autodesk's employee stock purchase plan, eligible employees may purchase
shares of Autodesk's common stock, at their discretion up to 15 percent of their
compensation subject to certain limitations, at not less than 85 percent of fair
market value as defined in the plan agreement. In fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998,
shares totaling 0.8 million, 0.6 million and 0.5 million, respectively, were
issued under the plan at average prices of $20.25, $23.21 and $22.35 per share.
At January 31, 2000, a total of 1.9 million shares were available for future
issuance under the plan.

Pro Forma Net Income (Loss) Information

Autodesk applies APB 25 in accounting for its employee stock plans. Accordingly,
no compensation expense is recognized in Autodesk's consolidated statement of
operations, other than for stock awards that have exercise prices less than the
fair market value of Autodesk's common stock at the date of grant. Had
compensation expense been determined in accordance with the fair value method
prescribed by SFAS 123, Autodesk's pro forma net loss for fiscal 2000 and net
income for fiscal 1999 and 1998 was $(44.7) million, $52.2 million and $13.9
million, respectively. Pro forma basic net income (loss) per share was $(0.74),
$0.93 and $0.25 in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Pro forma diluted
net income (loss) per share was $(0.74), $0.88 and $0.23 in fiscal 2000, 1999
and 1998, respectively.

The weighted average estimated fair value of stock options granted during fiscal
2000, 1999 and 1998 was $22.60, $14.14 and $13.53 per share, respectively. These
were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, based on the
following assumptions: expected volatility of 1.6, 0.6 and 0.5. for fiscal 2000,
1999 and 1998; the weighted average estimated life was 5 years for fiscal 2000
and 3 years for 1999 and 1998; the weighted average risk-free rate was 5.8%;
5.6% and 5.7% for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998; and the dividend yield was 0.9%,
0.7% and 0.6% for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

The weighted average estimated fair value of shares granted under the employee
stock purchase plan during fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998 was $7.64, $9.07 and
$7.27, respectively. These were estimated using the Black-Scholes option-pricing
model, based on the following assumptions: expected volatility of 0.6, 0.6 and
0.5 for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998; the weighted average estimated life was 0.5
years for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998; the weighted average risk-free rate was
4.2%, 5.1% and 5.4% for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998; and the dividend yield was
0.9%, 0.7% and 0.6% for fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Pretax Savings Plan

Autodesk has a 401(k) plan that covers nearly all U.S. employees. Eligible
employees may contribute up to 20 percent of their pretax salary, subject to
certain limitations. Autodesk makes voluntary contributions and matches a
portion of employee contributions. Autodesk's contributions were $5.0, $4.6
million and $4.1 million in fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Autodesk provides defined-contribution plans in certain foreign countries where
required by statute. Autodesk's funding policy for foreign defined-contribution
plans is consistent with the local requirements in each country. Autodesk's
contributions to these plans during fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998 were $2.4
million, $1.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively.

Note 9. Business Combinations

In addition to the acquisition of Discreet, the following acquisitions occurred
over the past three years. Pro forma financial results, as defined by Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 16, "Business Combinations," have not been provided
since the acquisitions were not material.

VISION

On April 22, 1999, Autodesk acquired VISION, a vendor of enterprise automated
mapping/facilities management/geographic information systems (AM/FM/GIS)
solutions. Of the $26.0 million purchase price, which was paid in cash, $3.3
million represented the value of in-process research and development ("IPR&D")

                                       43
<PAGE>

that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future
use, and as such, was expensed during fiscal 2000. Of the remaining purchase
price, $17.6 million and $2.1 million were allocated to goodwill and other
intangibles, respectively.

Genius CAD Software GmbH ("Genius")

On May 4, 1998, Autodesk entered into an agreement with Genius, a German limited
liability company, to purchase various mechanical CAD software applications and
technologies. Autodesk accounted for this acquisition under the purchase method
of accounting. Of the total purchase price of $68.9 million, which was paid in
cash, $13.1 million was allocated to IPR&D and was expensed since the technology
had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use;
$12.7 million was allocated to an intangible asset, purchased technology; and
$41.6 million was allocated to goodwill.

The value assigned to the IPR&D ($13.1 million) was determined by identifying
research projects in areas for which technological feasibility had not been
achieved. The calculations of value were adjusted to reflect the value creation
efforts of Genius prior to the close of the acquisition. The value was
determined by estimating the costs remaining to develop the purchased in-process
technology into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash
flows from such projects, and discounting the net cash flows back to their
present value. The discount rate included a factor that took into account the
uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the purchased in-process
technology projects.

The value assigned to purchased technology ($12.7 million) was determined based
on the expected future cash flows of the existing developed technologies,
discounted for the characteristics and applications of the product, the size of
existing markets, growth rates of existing and future markets, as well as an
evaluation of past and anticipated product-life cycles.

Softdesk, Inc. ("Softdesk")

On March 31, 1997, Autodesk exchanged 2.9 million shares of its common stock for
all of the outstanding stock of Softdesk, a supplier of AutoCAD-based
applications software for the architecture, engineering and construction market.
Based on the value of Autodesk stock and options exchanged, the transaction,
including transactions costs, was valued at approximately $94.1 million.

Of the $94.1 million purchase price, $19.2 million was allocated to IPR&D and
expensed in fiscal 1998 since the technology had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative future use; $9.2 million was allocated to an
intangible asset, purchased technologies; $6.7 million was allocated to other
intangible assets; and $48.0 million was allocated to goodwill.

The value assigned to IPR&D ($19.2 million) was determined by identifying
research projects in areas for which technological feasibility had not been
achieved. The value was determined by estimating the costs to develop the
purchased in-process technology into commercially viable products, estimating
the resulting net cash flows from such projects, and discounting the net cash
flows back to their present value. The discount rate included a factor that took
into account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the
purchased in-process technology projects.

The value assigned to purchased technology ($9.2 million) was determined by
taking the expected future cash flows of the existing developed technologies,
and then discounting them for the specific characteristics and applications of
the product, the size of existing markets, growth rates of existing and future
markets, as well as an evaluation of past and anticipated product-life cycles.

3D/Eye

In fiscal 1998, Autodesk also acquired certain assets and licensed technology
from 3D/Eye for $5.8 million. Of the total cost, $3.0 million represented the
value of IPR&D that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no
alternative future use. This amount was expensed.

                                       44
<PAGE>

Denim Software L.L.C. ("Denim")

On June 12, 1997, Discreet acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed
certain liabilities of Denim pursuant to the terms of an asset purchase
agreement. The purchased assets consisted primarily of Denim software products,
including ILLUMINAIRE Paint, ILLUMINAIRE Composition and ILLUMINAIRE Studio and
related know-how and goodwill. The aggregate purchase price of $12.2 million
consisted primarily of a cash payment of $9.1 million and the assumption of $2.2
million of liabilities.

Of the $12.2 million purchase price, $2.2 million was allocated to IPR&D and was
expensed in fiscal 1998 since the technology had not yet reached technological
feasibility and had no alternative use; $1.5 million was allocated to an
intangible asset, purchased technology; and $7.9 million was allocated to
goodwill.

D-Vision Systems, Inc. ("D-Vision")

On July 15, 1997, Discreet acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital
stock of D-Vision, an Illinois corporation, pursuant to a Stock Purchase
Agreement. As a result of this acquisition, Discreet acquired the D-Vision
OnLINE and PRO software products for non-linear video and digital media editing
solutions including related know-how and goodwill. The $27.2 million purchase
price was paid through a combination of 0.2 million newly issued common shares
that had a value of $10.7 million, and approximately $10.8 million in cash. Of
the $27.2 million purchase price, $5.3 million was allocated to IPR&D and was
expensed during fiscal 1998 since the technology had not yet reached
technological feasibility and had no alternative future use; $3.1 was allocated
to an intangible asset, purchased technology; and $16.7 million was allocated to
goodwill.

Lightscape Technologies, Inc ("Lightscape")

On December 2, 1997, Discreet entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and
Reorganization with Lightscape, a Delaware corporation. The merger closed on
December 30, 1997. As a result of the merger, Discreet acquired, among other
products, the Lightscape product, a software application which integrates
radiosity and raytracing with physically based lighting, including related
know-how and goodwill. The aggregate purchase consideration of $7.6 million
consisted primarily of $6.4 million of assumed liabilities.

Of the $7.6 million purchase price, $1.7 million was allocated to IPR&D and was
expensed during fiscal 1998 since the technology had not yet reached
technological feasibility and had no alternative future use; and $4.3 million
was allocated to goodwill.

Note 10. Nonrecurring Charges

During fiscal 2000, Autodesk recorded nonrecurring charges totaling $34.7
million, which primarily resulted from the acquisition of Discreet ($17.1
million), acquisition of VISION ($3.3 million--See Note 9), and a corporate
restructuring that occurred during the third quarter ($15.5 million). These
nonrecurring charges were offset by a $1.0 million reversal of a litigation
reserve established in fiscal 1999. The litigation matter was settled for less
than originally estimated.

Of the $17.1 million of charges resulting from the acquisition of Discreet,
$14.1 million related to transaction costs, which included fees paid to
investment bankers, attorneys, accountants and financial printers; $2.6 million
related to restructuring costs, which consisted primarily of employee
termination costs and legal entity liquidations, and $0.4 million related to
one-time costs. At January 31, 2000, the remaining liabilities associated with
these charges totaled $1.0 million, of which $0.5 million related to transaction
costs and $0.5 million related to the legal entity liquidation portion of the
restructuring.

Of the $15.5 million of corporate restructuring charges, which resulted from
Autodesk's efforts to reduce operating expenses, $11.7 million related to
termination and other employee costs associated with the elimination of 350
positions, most of which occurred in the U.S.; $3.2 million related to office
closure costs; and $0.6 million related to one-time costs. Employee termination
costs included wage continuation, advance notice pay and medical and other
benefits. The liabilities associated with the employee terminations will be
substantially settled over the next several months. Office closure costs
included losses on operating lease payments ($1.1 million) and the write-off of
leasehold improvements and equipment ($2.1 million). The following table sets
forth the restructuring activity during fiscal 2000:

                                       45
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In millions)                        Balance at                                                             Balance at
                                     February 1,                          Charges                           January 31,
                                        1999            Additions         Utilized         Reversals           2000
                                    ---------------   ---------------   ---------------  ----------------  ----------------
<S>                                 <C>               <C>               <C>              <C>               <C>
Employee termination costs              $    --            $  13.4        $ (11.5)           $ (0.9)            $   1.0
Office closure costs                        0.3                3.3           (2.6)             (0.3)                0.7
Legal entity liquidations                   0.4                0.9           (0.4)             (0.4)                0.5
One-time costs                               --                0.9           (0.9)                --                 --
                                        -------            -------        --------           -------            -------
Total                                   $   0.7            $  18.5        $  (15.4)          $  (1.6)           $   2.2
                                        =======            =======        ========           =======            =======
</TABLE>

During fiscal 1999, Autodesk recorded nonrecurring charges totaling $19.7
million, which resulted from the acquisition of Genius ($13.1 million - See Note
9) and certain other charges ($8.9 million). These nonrecurring charges were
offset by $2.3 million of excess lease-related reserves, which were associated
with a fiscal 1996 restructuring, that Discreet reversed.

Of the $8.9 million of other charges, $1.5 million related to the consolidation
of certain development centers, $2.2 million related to the write-off of
purchased technologies associated with these operations, $1.7 million related to
staff reductions in Asia Pacific, $2.5 million related to costs involving a
certain litigation matter, and $1.0 million related to the write-down to fair
market value of older computer equipment. At January 31, 2000, there were no
remaining liabilities associated with these nonrecurring charges.

During fiscal 1998, Autodesk recorded nonrecurring charges of $26.8 million,
which primarily resulted from the acquisitions of Softdesk ($19.2 million),
3D/Eye ($3.0 million), Denim ($2.2 million), D-Vision ($5.3 million) and
Lightscape ($1.7 million) - See Note 9. These nonrecurring charges were offset
by a gain on the sale of Autodesk's interest in a network technology company
($2.5 million) and the reversal of $2.3 million of reserves related to a prior
restructuring. The $2.3 reserve reversal was also included in the fiscal 1999
results as a result of consolidating Discreet, which previously had a different
fiscal year-end than Autodesk (see Note 1).

Note 11. Litigation Accrual Reversal

In fiscal 1995, Autodesk recorded a significant reserve as a result of a
judgment against Autodesk on a claim involving a trade-secret misappropriation.
Autodesk appealed the judgment and as a result of the appeal decision, which was
finalized in May 1998, the amount levied against Autodesk was significantly
reduced. During fiscal 1999, Autodesk reversed the remaining unutilized
litigation and interest accruals, which totaled $18.2 million and $2.7 million,
respectively.

Note 12. Segments

During the second quarter of fiscal 2000, Autodesk reorganized its operations
into four business divisions with industry-specific charters: the Design
Solutions Division (consisting primarily of the MCAD and AECAD market groups and
most of the Personal Solutions Group), the GIS Solutions Division ("GIS"), the
Discreet Division (consisting of the Kinetix and Discreet businesses), and
Autodesk Ventures.

Autodesk's operating results have been aggregated into two reportable segments:
the Discreet Segment and the Design Solutions Segment. Segment information
involving GIS and Autodesk Ventures was aggregated with the Design Solutions
Division (collectively, referred to in these financial statements as the "Design
Solutions Segment"). The Design Solutions and GIS divisions have similar
production processes, customer types and distribution methods. Autodesk Ventures
segment information is not material.

The Design Solutions Segment develops and sells design software products for
professionals, occasional users, or consumers who design, draft and diagram. The
end users of the design software products include architects, engineers,
construction firms, designers and drafters. The Discreet Segment derives
revenues from the sale of its products to creative professionals for a variety
of applications, including feature films, television programs, commercials,
music and corporate videos, interactive game production, live broadcasting and
Web design. Both

                                       46
<PAGE>

segments primarily distribute their respective products through authorized
dealers and distributors, and, in some cases, they also sell their products
directly to end-users.

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those
described in Note 1 to Notes of Consolidated Financial Statements. Autodesk
evaluates each segment's performance on the basis of income from operations
before income taxes. Autodesk currently does not separately accumulate and
report asset information by segment. Prior year amounts have been restated to
conform to the current year presentation. Information concerning the operations
of Autodesk's reportable segments was as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     (In millions)                                  Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                    -----------------------------

                                                       2000              1999             1998
                                                       ----              ----             ----
     <S>                                            <C>              <C>              <C>
     Net revenues:
      Design Solutions                                $  648.1         $  699.3         $  584.0
      Discreet                                           172.1            172.6            184.7
                                                    ----------       ----------       ----------
                                                      $  820.2         $  871.9         $  768.7
                                                    ==========       ==========       ==========

     Income (loss) from operations:

      Design Solutions                                $  323.4         $  394.4         $  320.9
      Discreet                                           (13.2)            19.5             17.4
      Unallocated amounts/1/                            (309.4)          (271.8)          (243.3)
                                                    ----------       ----------       ----------
                                                      $    0.8         $  142.1         $   95.0
                                                    ==========       ==========       ==========

     Depreciation and amortization:
      Design Solutions                                $   43.4         $   39.4         $   22.9
      Discreet                                            20.6             22.1             23.7
      Unallocated amounts                                 15.7             19.3             19.7
                                                    ----------       ----------       ----------
                                                      $   79.7         $   80.8         $   66.3
                                                    ==========       ==========       ==========
</TABLE>

      /1/ Unallocated amounts in fiscal 2000 are attributed primarily to
      corporate expenses of $136.0 million, other geographic costs and expenses
      managed outside the reportable segments of $159.6 million, and
      nonrecurring charges of $13.8 million, a significant portion of which
      consisted of the corporate restructuring charges, which were not
      allocated. Unallocated amounts in fiscal year 1999 are attributed
      primarily to corporate expenses of $110.3 million, other geographic costs
      and expenses that are managed outside the reportable segments of $174.2
      million and nonrecurring income of $12.7 million. Fiscal year 1998
      unallocated amounts are primarily related to corporate expenses of $76.6
      million and other geographic costs and expenses not allocated to specific
      segments of $166.7 million.

                                       47
<PAGE>

Information regarding Autodesk's operations by geographic area is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     (In millions)                                                     Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                                       -----------------------------

                                                                          2000           1999          1998
                                                                          ----           ----          ----
     <S>                                                                   <C>            <C>           <C>
     Net revenues:
      United States customers                                              $ 294.5        $ 356.5       $ 317.2
      Other Americas                                                          58.6           57.2          46.9
                                                                           -------        -------       -------

      Total Americas                                                         353.1          413.7         364.1

     Europe                                                                  296.4          329.6         257.5
     Asia Pacific                                                            170.7          128.6         147.1
                                                                           -------        -------       -------

      Total net revenues                                                   $ 820.2        $ 871.9       $ 768.7
                                                                           =======        =======       =======
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     (In millions)                                                               January 31,
                                                                                 -----------

                                                                                    2000               1999
                                                                                    ----               ----
     <S>                                                                           <C>                <C>
     Long-lived assets:/1/
      United States operations                                                     $ 347.0            $ 146.3
      Other Americas                                                                  15.1               95.1
                                                                                   -------            -------

     Total Americas                                                                  362.1              241.4

      Neuchatel, Switzerland/2/                                                      195.1               37.7
      Other Europe                                                                   228.4               21.4
                                                                                   -------            -------

     Total Europe                                                                    423.5               59.1

     Asia Pacific                                                                      6.6               26.2
                                                                                   -------            -------
     Consolidating eliminations                                                     (639.9)            (126.3)
                                                                                   -------            -------

     Total long-lived assets                                                       $ 152.3            $ 200.4
                                                                                   =======            =======
</TABLE>

     1   Long-lived assets exclude financial instruments and deferred tax
         assets. As such, marketable securities and deferred taxes have been
         excluded above.

     2   Investment in Discreet held by Neuchatel. This investment eliminates
         upon consolidation.


Note 13. Comprehensive Income

The components of total accumulated other comprehensive loss in the balance
sheet are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     (In thousands)                                                                 January 31,
                                                                                    -----------

                                                                                        2000              1999
                                                                                        ----              ----
     <S>                                                                             <C>               <C>
     Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities, net of tax          $   (1,370)       $      775
     Foreign currency translation adjustment                                            (13,452)          (14,907)
                                                                                     ----------        ----------

     Total accumulated other comprehensive loss                                      $  (14,822)       $  (14,132)
                                                                                     ==========        ==========
</TABLE>

                                       48
<PAGE>

The related income tax effects allocated to each component of other
comprehensive income (loss) are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(In thousands)

                                                                                      Income
                                                                          Amount      tax             Amount
                                                                          before      (expense)       net of
                                                                          taxes        benefit        taxes
                                                                         -----------  -------------  ------------
<S>                                                                      <C>          <C>            <C>
Fiscal 2000:

 Unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities                      $ (2,869)    $     918      $  (1,951)
 Less: reclassification for amounts realized in net income                   (285)           91           (194)
                                                                         --------     ---------      ---------
 Net unrealized losses                                                     (3,154)        1,009         (2,145)
 Foreign currency translation adjustments                                   1,455            --          1,455
                                                                         --------     ---------       --------

         Total other comprehensive loss                                  $ (1,699)    $   1,009      $    (690)
                                                                         ========     =========      =========
Fiscal 1999:

 Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities                       $     18     $      (6)     $      12
 Less: reclassification for amounts realized in net income                   (269)           83           (186)
                                                                         --------     ---------      ---------
 Net unrealized gains                                                         287           (89)           198
 Foreign currency translation adjustments                                   5,772            --          5,772
                                                                         --------     ---------      ---------

         Total other comprehensive income                                $  6,059     $     (89)     $   5,970
                                                                         ========     =========      =========
Fiscal 1998:

 Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities                   $    565     $    (203)     $     362
 Foreign currency translation adjustments                                  (9,801)           --         (9,801)
                                                                         --------     ---------      ---------

         Total other comprehensive loss                                  $ (9,236)    $    (203)     $  (9,439)
                                                                         ========     =========      =========
</TABLE>

Note 14. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)


Summarized quarterly financial information for fiscal 2000, 1999, and 1998 is as
follows:

(In thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               1st quarter      2nd quarter     3rd quarter     4th quarter      Fiscal year
                                             --------------   -------------   --------------  ---------------  --------------
<S>                                          <C>              <C>             <C>             <C>              <C>
Fiscal 2000
   Net revenues                                   $ 194,939       $ 202,945       $ 202,072        $ 220,226       $ 820,182
   Gross margin                                     162,531         163,331         166,852          183,597         676,311
   Income (loss) from operations                    (20,209)         (5,248)         (4,435)          30,655             763
   Net income (loss)                                (17,144)            389           1,393           25,170           9,808
   Basic net income (loss) per share                  (0.29)           0.01            0.02             0.42            0.16
   Diluted net income (loss) per share                (0.29)           0.01            0.02             0.41            0.16
Fiscal 1999
   Net revenues                                   $ 222,918       $ 226,811       $ 204,609        $ 217,541       $ 871,879
   Gross margin                                     188,896         191,229         173,600          183,907         737,632
   Income from operations                            42,689          40,888          25,193           33,317         142,087
   Net income                                        28,733          27,530          17,624           23,245          97,132
   Basic net income per share                          0.51            0.49            0.31             0.41            1.72
   Diluted net income per share                        0.48            0.46            0.31             0.39            1.64
Fiscal 1998
   Net revenues                                   $ 157,389       $ 191,364       $ 197,907        $ 222,024       $ 768,684
   Gross margin                                     124,020         158,947         166,061          186,285         635,313
   Income (loss) from operations                    (17,182)         29,438          33,160           49,578          94,994
   Net income (loss)                                (18,529)         18,995          22,046           33,703          56,215
   Basic net income (loss) per share                  (0.33)           0.33            0.39             0.61            1.00
   Diluted net income (loss) per share                (0.33)           0.31            0.36             0.57            0.94
</TABLE>

                                       49
<PAGE>

Results for the first quarter of fiscal 2000 included nonrecurring charges
totaling $21.8 million, which resulted from the acquisition of Discreet and
VISION. Results for the third quarter of fiscal 2000 included nonrecurring
charges totaling $14.7 million, which primarily related to a corporate
restructuring. Results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2000 included
nonrecurring credits totaling $1.8 million, primarily related to the reversal of
a litigation reserve established in fiscal 1999.

Results for the second quarter of fiscal 1999 included nonrecurring charges of
$19.7 million, which resulted from the acquisition of Genius and certain
restructuring charges. Results for the first quarter of fiscal 1998 included
nonrecurring charges of $19.2 million, $5.3 million and $3.0 million, related to
the Softdesk, D-Vision and 3D/Eye acquisitions, respectively. Results for the
second quarter of fiscal 1998 included nonrecurring charges of approximately
$1.7 million related to the Lightscape acquisition. Results for the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1998 included nonrecurring credits of $2.3 million primarily
related to a gain on sale of an investment.

                                       50
<PAGE>

Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Autodesk, Inc.

We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Autodesk, Inc., as of January
31, 2000 and 1999 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended January 31, 2000. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial statements and
schedule are the responsibility of Autodesk's management. Our responsibility is
to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits. We did not audit the financial statements of Discreet Logic Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary acquired in March, 1999, which statements reflect total
assets constituting 16% of the related consolidated financial statement totals,
and which reflect net income constituting approximately 9% of the related
consolidated financial statement totals for the two year period ended January
31, 1999. Those statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been
furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to data included for
Discreet Logic Inc., is based solely on the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits and the report of other auditors
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Autodesk, Inc. at
January 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated results of its operations and
its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2000,
in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

                                     /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Jose, California
February 18, 2000

                                       51
<PAGE>

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

                                       52
<PAGE>

                                   PART III

Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that the
Registrant will file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
(the "Proxy Statement") not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Report and certain information included therein is incorporated
herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that
specifically address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference.
Such incorporation does not include the Compensation Committee Report or the
Performance Graph included in the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information concerning Autodesk's directors and compliance with Section 16
of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 required by this Item are
incorporated by reference to Autodesk's Proxy Statement.

The information concerning Autodesk's executive officers required by this Item
is incorporated by reference herein to the section of this Report in Part I,
Item 4, entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Autodesk's
Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Autodesk's
Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to Autodesk's
Proxy Statement.

                                       53
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:

1.   Financial Statements: The information concerning Autodesk's financial
     --------------------
     statements, and Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors required
     by this Item is incorporated by reference herein to the section of this
     Report in Item 8, entitled "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."

2.   Financial Statement Schedule: The following financial statement schedule of
     ----------------------------
     Autodesk, Inc., for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998,
     is filed as part of this Report and should be read in conjunction with the
     Consolidated Financial Statements of Autodesk, Inc.

          Schedule II      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts................S-1

     Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not
     applicable or are not required or the information required to be set forth
     therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes
     thereto.

3.   Exhibits:  The Exhibits listed below are filed as part of, or incorporated
     --------
     by reference into, this Report.



          Exhibit
           No.                                    Description
           --                                     -----------
         2.1 (1)    Second Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of
                    Acquisition and Amalgamation by and among Autodesk, Inc.,
                    Autodesk Development BV, 9066-9771 Quebec Inc., Autodesk
                    Canada Inc., 9066-9854 Quebec Inc. and Discreet Logic Inc.,
                    dated as of November 18, 1998, as amended on December 18,
                    1998 and January 18, 1999

         2.2 (1)    Second Amended and Restated Amalgamation Agreement by and
                    among Discreet Logic Inc., 9066-9854 Quebec Inc. and
                    Autodesk, Inc. dated as of January 18, 1999

         3.1 (2)    Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant

         3.2 (4)    Certificate of Designation of Rights, Preferences and
                    Privileges of Series A Participating Preferred Stock of
                    Autodesk, Inc.

         3.3 (2)    Certificate of the Powers, Designations, Preferences and
                    Rights of Series B Preferred Stock of Autodesk, Inc.

         3.4 (3)    Bylaws of Registrant, as amended

         4.1 (5)    Preferred Shares Right Agreement dated December 14, 1995

         4.2 (5)    Amendment No. 1 to Preferred Shares Rights Agreement

         9.1 (2)    Voting and Exchange Trust Agreement dated March 16, 1999
                    among Autodesk, Inc., Discreet Logic Inc., Autodesk
                    Development B.V., and Montreal Trust Company of Canada

        10.2 *      Registrant's 1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan and
                    form of Subscription Agreement, as amended

        10.3 (3)*   Registrant's 1990 Directors' Option Plan, as amended

        10.4 *      Registrant's 1996 Stock Plan, as amended

        10.5 (6)*   Form of Indemnification Agreement executed by Autodesk and
                    each of its officers and directors

        10.6 (7)*   Agreement between Registrant and Carol A. Bartz dated April
                    7, 1992

                                       54
<PAGE>

        10.7 (2)    Support Agreement dated March 16, 1999 among Autodesk, Inc.,
                    Autodesk Development B.V. and Discreet Logic Inc.

        10.8 *      Form of Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement of Buzzsaw.com,
                    Inc.

        21.1        List of Subsidiaries

        23.1        Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

        24.1        Power of Attorney

        27.1        Financial Data Schedule

        (1)   Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the
              Registrant's Report on Form 8-K filed on March 16, 1999.

        (2)   Incorporated by reference to the exhibits filed with the
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              January 31, 1999.

        (3)   Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              January 31, 1998.

        (4)   Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              January 31, 1997.

        (5)   Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-A
              filed on January 5, 1996, as amended on January 8, 1996 and
              January 15, 1998.

        (6)   Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the
              Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
              January 31, 1995.

        (7)   Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the
              Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
              April 30, 1992.

        *     Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

None

                                       55
<PAGE>


                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be
     signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          AUTODESK, INC.

                                                 By:  /s/  CAROL A. BARTZ
                                                     --------------------------
                                                      Carol A. Bartz
                                                      Chairman of the Board

     Dated: April 14, 2000

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature
     appears below constitutes and appoints Carol A. Bartz as his or her
     attorney-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him or her in
     any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K,
     and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in
     connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
     ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his
     substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
     Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
     Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               Signature                       Title                                Date
     ----------------------------        ----------------------------            -----------
     <S>                                 <C>                                     <C>
     /s/  CAROL A. BARTZ                 Chairman, President and                 April 14, 2000
     ----------------------------
     Carol A. Bartz                      Chief Executive Officer
                                         (Principal Executive Officer)

     /s/  STEVE CAKEBREAD                Senior Vice President and               April 14, 2000
     ---------------------------
     Steve Cakebread                    Chief Financial Officer
                                        (Principal Financial Officer and
                                        Principal Accounting Officer)

     /s/  MARK A. BERTELSEN             Director                                 April 14, 2000
     ----------------------------
     Mark A. Bertelsen

     /s/  CRAWFORD W. BEVERIDGE         Director                                 April 14, 2000
     --------------------------
     Crawford W. Beveridge

     /s/  J. HALLAM DAWSON              Director                                 April 14, 2000
     ---------------------------
     J. Hallam Dawson

     /s/  PAUL OTELLINI                 Director                                 April 14, 2000
     -----------------------------
     Paul Otellini

     /s/  MARY ALICE TAYLOR             Director                                 April 14, 2000
     ----------------------------
     Mary Alice Taylor
</TABLE>

                                       56
<PAGE>

Schedule II

                                AUTODESK, INC.

                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Additions

                                                       Balance at        Charged to                           Balance
                                                        Beginning         Costs and         Deductions        at End
             Description                                 of Year          Expenses          Write-Offs        of Year
- ------------------------------------------------     -------------     --------------    --------------     -------------
<S>                                                  <C>               <C>               <C>                <C>
Fiscal year ended January 31, 2000
         Allowance for doubtful accounts              $ 10,642,000       $  1,515,000      $  1,505,000      $ 10,652,000
         Allowance for stock balancing and
         product rotation                               14,777,000         47,255,000        42,662,000        19,370,000
         Restructuring                                     723,000         18,500,000        17,023,000         2,200,000

Fiscal year ended January 31, 1999
         Allowance for doubtful accounts              $ 10,830,000       $  1,930,000      $  2,118,000      $ 10,642,000
         Allowance for stock balancing and
         product rotation                               20,219,000         25,484,000        30,926,000        14,777,000
         Restructuring                                     825,000                  0           102,000           723,000

Fiscal year ended January 31, 1998
         Allowance for doubtful accounts              $ 10,122,000       $  4,010,000      $  3,302,000      $ 10,830,000
         Allowance for stock balancing and
         product rotation                               17,175,000         38,419,000        35,375,000        20,219,000
         Restructuring                                   4,273,000            829,000         4,277,000           825,000
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>1998 EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.2

                                AUTODESK, INC.

                 1998 EMPLOYEE QUALIFIED STOCK PURCHASE PLAN/1/


     The following constitute the provisions of the 1998 Employee Qualified
Stock Purchase Plan (herein called the "Plan") of Autodesk, Inc. (herein called
the "Company").

     1.  Purpose.  The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of the
         -------
Company and its Designated Subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase Common
Stock of the Company through accumulated payroll deductions. It is the intention
of the Company to have the Plan qualify as an "Employee Stock Purchase Plan"
under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The provisions of the
Plan shall, accordingly, be construed so as to extend and limit participation in
a manner consistent with the requirements of that section of the Code.

     2.  Definitions.
         -----------

         (a)  "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
               -----

         (b)  "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
               ----

         (c)  "Common Stock" shall mean the Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
               ------------
share, of the Company.

         (d)  "Company" shall mean Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
               -------

         (e)  "Compensation" shall mean all regular straight time earnings,
               ------------
payments for overtime, shift premium and commissions, but exclusive of any
incentive compensation, incentive payments, bonuses, or other compensation.

         (f)  "Continuous Status as an Employee" shall mean the absence of any
               --------------------------------
interruption or termination of service as an Employee. Continuous Status as an
Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of a leave of absence
agreed to in writing by the Company, provided that such leave is for a period of
not more than 90 days or reemployment upon the expiration of such leave is
guaranteed by contract or statute.

         (g)  "Designated Subsidiaries" shall mean the Subsidiaries which have
               -----------------------
been designated by the Board from time to time in its sole discretion as
eligible to participate in the Plan.

______________________
     /1/As amended by the Company's Board of Directors on September 9, 1998.

                                      -1-
<PAGE>

          (h) "Employee" shall mean any person, including an officer, who is
               --------
customarily employed for at least twenty (20) hours per week and more than five
(5) months in a calendar year by the Company or one of its Designated
Subsidiaries.

          (i) "Exercise Date" shall mean the date one day prior to the date six
               -------------
(6) months, twelve (12) months, eighteen (18) months or twenty-four (24) months
after the Offering Date of each Offering Period.

          (j) "Exercise Period" shall mean a period commencing on an Offering
               ---------------
Date or on the day after an Exercise Date and terminating one day prior to the
date six (6) months later.

          (k) "Offering Period" shall mean a period of twenty-four (24) months
               ---------------
consisting of four (4) six-month Exercise Periods during which options granted
pursuant to the Plan may be exercised.

          (l) "Offering Date" shall mean the first day of each Offering Period
               -------------
of the Plan.

          (m) "Plan"  shall mean this 1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase
               ----
Plan.

          (n) "Subsidiary"  shall mean a corporation, domestic or foreign, of
               ----------
which not less than 50% of the voting shares are held by the Company or a
Subsidiary, whether or not such corporation now exists or is hereafter organized
or acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary.

     3.   Eligibility.
          -----------

          (a) Any Employee as defined in paragraph 2 who shall be employed by
the Company on the Offering Date shall be eligible to participate in the Plan,
subject to limitations imposed by Section 423(b) of the Code.

          (b) Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, no
Employee shall be granted an option under the Plan (i) if, immediately after the
grant, such Employee (or any other person whose stock would be attributed to
such Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code) would own stock and/or
hold outstanding options to purchase stock possessing five percent (5%) or more
of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the
Company or of any subsidiary of the Company, or (ii) which permits such
Employee's rights to purchase stock under all employee stock purchase plans of
the Company and its subsidiaries to accrue at a rate which exceeds Twenty-Five
Thousand Dollars ($25,000) of fair market value of such stock (determined at the
time such option is granted) for each calendar year in which such option is
outstanding at any time.

     4.   Offering Periods.  The Plan shall be implemented by twenty-four (24)
          ----------------
month Offering Periods beginning every six (6) months, until terminated in
accordance with Section 20 hereof; provided that, the first Offering Period
shall begin on the first business day after the Company's Special Meeting on
March 31,1998. The Board of Directors of the Company shall have the power to
change the duration of offering periods with respect to future offerings without
stockholder approval if such change is

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

announced at least fifteen (15) days prior to the scheduled beginning of the
first offering period to be affected.

     5.  Participation.
         -------------

         (a)   An eligible Employee may become a participant in the Plan by
completing a subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions on the form
provided by the Company and filing it with the Company's payroll office at least
one week prior to the applicable Offering Date, unless a later time for filing
the subscription agreement is set by the Board for all eligible Employees with
respect to a given offering.

         (b)   Payroll deductions for a participant shall continue at the rate
specified in the subscription agreement throughout the Offering Period with
automatic re-enrollment for the Offering Period which commences the day after
the Exercise Date at the same rate specified in the original subscription
agreement, subject to any change in subscription rate made pursuant to Section
6(c), unless sooner terminated by the participant as provided in Section 10.

     6.  Payroll Deductions.
         ------------------

         (a)   At the time a participant files his or her subscription
agreement, such participant shall elect to have payroll deductions made on each
payday during the offering period in an amount not exceeding fifteen percent
(15%) of his or her Compensation on each payroll date. The aggregate of such
payroll deductions during any offering period shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of his or her aggregate Compensation during said offering period.

         (b)   All payroll deductions made by a participant shall be credited to
his or her account under the Plan. A participant may not make any additional
payments into such account.

         (c)   A participant may discontinue his or her participation in the
Plan as provided in Section 11, or may increase or decrease the rate of his or
her payroll deductions at any time during the Offering Period by completing or
filing with the Company a form provided by the Company notifying the payroll
office of such withdrawal or reduction of withholding rate. The change in rate
shall be effective as of the next pay date following receipt of the form or at
such other time as the Company and the participant may agree.

     7.  Grant of Option.
         ---------------

         (a)   On the Offering Date of each Offering Period, each eligible
Employee participating in the Plan shall be granted an option to purchase on
each Exercise Date during such Offering Period (at the per share option price)
up to a number of shares of the Company's Common Stock determined by dividing
such Employee's payroll deductions to be accumulated prior to such Exercise Date
by the lower of (i) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a
share of the Company's Common Stock on the Offering Date or (ii) eighty-five
percent (85%) of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock
on the Exercise Date; provided that in no event shall

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

an Employee be permitted to purchase during an Offering Period a number of
shares in excess of a number determined by dividing $50,000 by the fair market
value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the Offering Date, subject to
the limitations set forth in Sections 3(b) and 13 hereof. Fair market value of a
share of the Company's Common Stock shall be determined as provided in Section
7(b) herein.

          (b)  The option price per share of the shares offered in a given
Exercise Period shall be the lower of: (i) 85% of the fair market value of a
share of the Common Stock of the Company on the Offering Date; or (ii) 85% of
the fair market value of a share of the Common Stock of the Company on the
Exercise Date. The fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on a given
date shall be the closing price as quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.'s
National Market or, if traded on a securities exchange, the closing price on
such exchange.

     8.  Exercise of Option.  Unless a participant withdraws from the Plan as
         ------------------
provided in Section 11, his or her option for the purchase of shares will be
exercised automatically on each Exercise Date of the Offering Period, and the
maximum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for him or her
at the applicable option price with the accumulated payroll deductions in his or
her account. During his or her lifetime, a participant's option to purchase
shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.

     9.  Delivery.  As promptly as practicable after the Exercise Date of each
         --------
offering, the Company shall arrange the delivery to each participant, as
appropriate, of a certificate representing the shares purchased upon exercise of
his or her option.  Any cash remaining which is insufficient to purchase a full
share of Common Stock at the termination of each Exercise Period shall be
applied to such participant's account in the subsequent Exercise Period unless
the participant requests withdrawal of such cash.

     10. Automatic Transfer to Low Price Offering Period.  In the event that
         -----------------------------------------------
the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock is lower on an Exercise Date
than it was on the first Offering Date for that Offering Period, all Employees
participating in the Plan on the Exercise Date shall be deemed to have withdrawn
from the Offering Period immediately after the exercise of their option on such
Exercise Date and to have enrolled as participants in a new Offering Period
which begins on or about the day following such Exercise Date.  A participant
may elect to remain in the previous Offering Period by filing a written
statement declaring such election with the Company prior to the time of the
automatic change to the new Offering Period.

     11. Withdrawal; Termination of Employment.
         -------------------------------------

         (a)   A participant may withdraw all but not less than all the payroll
deductions credited to his or her account under the Plan at any time prior to
the Exercise Date of the Offering Period by giving written notice to the
Company. All of the participant's payroll deductions credited to his or her
account will be paid to him or her at the next pay date after receipt of his or
her notice of withdrawal and his or her option for the current period will be
automatically terminated, and no further payroll deductions for the purchase of
shares will be made during the Offering Period.

                                      -4-
<PAGE>

          (b)  Upon termination of the participant's Continuous Status as an
Employee prior to the Exercise Date for any reason, including retirement or
death, the payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be returned to
the participant's or, in the case the of participant's death, to the person or
persons entitled thereto under Section 15, and his or her option will be
automatically terminated.

          (c)  A participant's withdrawal from an offering will not have any
effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in a succeeding offering or in
any similar plan which may hereafter be adopted by the Company.

     12.  Interest.  No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions of a
          --------
participant in the Plan.

     13.  Stock.
          -----

          (a)  The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock which
shall be made available for sale under the Plan shall be 2,000,000 shares, plus
an annual increase to be made on the last day of the immediately preceding
fiscal year equal to the lesser of (i) 2,500,000 shares, (ii) 2% of the Issued
Shares (as defined below) on such date or (iii) a lesser amount determined by
the Board, subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company
as provided in Section 19 hereof. "Issued Shares" shall mean the number of
shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding on such date plus any shares
reacquired by the Company during the fiscal year that ends on such date. If the
total number of shares which would otherwise be subject to options granted
pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof on the Exercise Date of an Offering Period
exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan (after deduction of
all shares for which options have been exercised or are then outstanding), the
Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available for
option grant in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall
determine to be equitable. In such event, the Company shall give written notice
of such reduction of the number of shares subject to the option to each Employee
affected thereby and shall similarly reduce the rate of payroll deductions, if
necessary.

          (b)  The participant will have no interest or voting right in shares
covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised.

          (c)  Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan will be
registered in the name of the participant or in the name of the participant and
his or her spouse.

     14.  Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by the Board of
          --------------
Directors of the Company or a committee appointed by the Board.  The
administration, interpretation or application of the Plan by the Board or its
committee shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all participants.  Members
of the Board who are eligible Employees are permitted to participate in the
Plan, provided that:

          (a)  Members of the Board who are eligible to participate in the Plan
may not vote on any matter affecting the administration of the Plan or the grant
of any option pursuant to the Plan.

                                      -5-
<PAGE>

          (b)  If a Committee is established to administer the Plan, no member
of the Board who is eligible to participate in the Plan may be a member of the
Committee.

     15.  Designation of Beneficiary.
          --------------------------

          (a)  A participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary who
is to receive any shares and cash, if any, from the participant's account under
the Plan in the event of such participant's death subsequent to the end of the
offering period but prior to delivery to such participant of such shares and
cash. In addition, a participant may file a written designation of a beneficiary
who is to receive any cash from the participant's account under the Plan in the
event of such participant's death prior to the Exercise Date of the offering
period.

          (b)  Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the participant
at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of a participant and in
the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at
the time of such participant's death, the Company shall deliver such shares
and/or cash to the executor or administrator of the estate of the participant,
or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of
the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver such shares and/or
cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the
participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company,
then to such other person as the Company may designate.

     16.  Transferability.  Neither payroll deductions credited to a
          ---------------
participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or
to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or
otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and
distribution or as provided in Section 15 hereof) by the participant.  Any such
attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without
effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw
funds in accordance with Section 11.

     17.  Use of Funds.  All payroll deductions received or held by the Company
          ------------
under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and the
Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions.

     18.  Reports.  Individual accounts will be maintained for each participant
          -------
in the Plan. Statements of account will be given to participating Employees
annually promptly following the Exercise Date, which statements will set forth
the amounts of payroll deductions, the per share purchase price, the number of
shares purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.

     19.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required
          ------------------------------------------
action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock
covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised and the
number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under
the Plan but have not yet been placed under option (collectively, the
"Reserves"), as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each
option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately
adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common
Stock resulting from a stock split or the payment of a stock

                                      -6-
<PAGE>

dividend (but only on the Common Stock) or any other increase or decrease in the
number of shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by
the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of
the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of
consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination
in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly
provided herein, no issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or
securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no
adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price
of shares of Common Stock subject to an option.

     In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the
offering period will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such
proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. In the event of a
proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the
merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each option under the
Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such
successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation,
unless the Board determines, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu
of such assumption or substitution, that the participant shall have the right to
exercise the option as to all of the optioned stock, including shares as to
which the option would not otherwise be exercisable. If the Board makes an
option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a
merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the participant that the option
shall be fully exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
such notice, and the option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.

     The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole discretion,
also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the price per share
of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option, in the event that the
Company effects one or more reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights offerings
or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding Common Stock.

     20.  Amendment or Termination.  The Board of Directors of the Company may
          ------------------------
at any time terminate or amend the Plan.  No such termination can affect options
previously granted, nor may an amendment make any change in any option
theretofore granted which adversely affects the rights of any participant. In
addition, to the extent necessary to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Act or
under Section 423 of the Code (or any successor rule or provision or any other
applicable law or regulation), the Company shall obtain stockholder approval in
such a manner and to such a degree as so required.

     21.  Notices.  All notices or other communications by a participant to the
          -------
Company under or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly
given when received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by
the person, designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.

                                      -7-
<PAGE>

     22.  Stockholder Approval.
          --------------------

          (a)  Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to approval by the
stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the date
the Plan is adopted. If such stockholder approval is obtained at a duly held
stockholders' meeting, it must be obtained by the affirmative vote of the
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company, or if such
stockholder approval is obtained by written consent, it must be obtained by the
unanimous written consent of all stockholders of the Company; provided, however,
that approval at a meeting or by written consent may be obtained by a lesser
degree of stockholder approval if the Board determines, in its discretion after
consultation with the Company's legal counsel, that such a lesser degree of
stockholder approval will comply with all applicable laws and will not adversely
affect the qualification of the Plan under Section 423 of the Code.

          (b)  If and in the event that the Company registers any class of
equity securities pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, any required
approval of the stockholders of the Company obtained after such registration
shall be solicited substantially in accordance with Section 14(a) of the
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

          (c)  If any required approval by the stockholders of the Plan itself
or of any amendment thereto is solicited at any time otherwise than in the
manner described in paragraph 21(b) hereof, then the Company shall, at or prior
to the first annual meeting of stockholders held subsequent to the later of (1)
the first registration of any class of equity securities of the Company under
Section 12 of the Exchange Act or (2) the granting of an option hereunder to an
officer or director after such registration, do the following:

               (i)  furnish in writing to the holders entitled to vote for the
Plan substantially the same information which would be required (if proxies to
be voted with respect to approval or disapproval of the Plan or amendment were
then being solicited) by the rules and regulations in effect under Section 14(a)
of the Exchange Act at the time such information is furnished; and

               (ii) file with, or mail for filing to, the Securities and
Exchange Commission four copies of the written information referred to in
subsection (i) hereof not later than the date on which such information is first
sent or given to stockholders.

     23.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.  Shares shall not be issued with
          ----------------------------------
respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the issuance and
delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all applicable
provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without limitation, the
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements
of any stock exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be
further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such
compliance.

          As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require
the person exercising such option to represent and warrant at the time of any
such exercise that the shares are being

                                      -8-
<PAGE>

purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or
distribute such shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a
representation is required by any of the aforementioned applicable provisions of
law.

     24.  Term of Plan.  The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to
          ------------
occur of its adoption by the Board of Directors or its approval by the
stockholders of the Company as described in paragraph 22. It shall continue in
effect for a term of twenty (20) years unless sooner terminated under paragraph
20.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>

                                AUTODESK, INC.
                                --------------

                    EMPLOYEE QUALIFIED STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
                    --------------------------------------
                            SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT
                            ----------------------


_____ Original Application                   Date: ___________________________
_____ Change in Payroll Deduction Rate
_____ Change of Beneficiary(ies)


1.   __________________________________ hereby elects to participate in the
     Autodesk, Inc. Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (the "Stock Purchase
     Plan") and subscribes to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock,
     without par value, in accordance with this Subscription Agreement and the
     Stock Purchase Plan.

2.   I hereby authorize payroll deductions from each paycheck in the amount of
     _____% (maximum 15%) of my Compensation on each payday during the Offering
     Period in accordance with the Stock Purchase Plan.  Such deductions are to
     continue for succeeding Offering Periods until I give written instructions
     for a change in or termination of such deductions.

3.   I understand that said payroll deductions shall be accumulated for the
     purchase of shares of Common Stock, without par value, at the applicable
     purchase price determined in accordance with the Stock Purchase Plan. I
     further understand that, except as otherwise set forth in the Stock
     Purchase Plan, shares will be purchased for me automatically on each
     Exercise Date of the offering period unless I otherwise withdraw from the
     Stock Purchase Plan by giving written notice to the Company for such
     purpose.

4.   I have received a copy of the complete "Autodesk, Inc. Employee Qualified
     Stock Purchase Plan."  I understand that my participation in the Stock
     Purchase Plan is in all respects subject to the terms of the Plan.  I have
     been provided with a prospectus describing the Stock Purchase Plan.  I
     understand that I may withdraw from the Stock Purchase Plan and have
     payroll deductions refunded (without interest) on the next payroll date
     following notice of withdrawal at any time during the Offering Period.

5.   Shares purchased for me under the Stock Purchase Plan should be issued in
     the name(s) of:
     __________________________________________________________________________.

6.   I understand that if I dispose of any shares received by me pursuant to the
     Stock Purchase Plan within 2 years after the Offering Date (the first day
     of the offering period during which I purchased such shares) or within one
     year after the date on which such shares were transferred to me, I will be
     treated for federal income tax purposes as having received ordinary income
     at the time of such disposition in an amount equal to the excess of the
     fair market value of the shares at the time such shares were transferred to
     me over the price which I paid for the shares,
<PAGE>

     and that I may be required to provide income tax withholding on that
     amount. I hereby agree to notify the Company in writing within 30 days
             --------------------------------------------------------------
     after the date of any such disposition. However, if I dispose of such
     --------------------------------------
     shares at any time after the expiration of the two-year and one-year
     holding periods, I understand that I will be treated for federal income tax
     purposes as having received income only at the time of such disposition,
     and that such income will be treated as ordinary income only to the extent
     of an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the excess of the fair market value
     of the shares at the time of such disposition over the purchase price which
     I paid for the shares under the option, or (2) the excess of the fair
     market value of the shares over the option price, measured as if the option
     had been exercised on the Offering Date. The remainder of the gain or loss,
     if any, recognized on such disposition will be treated as capital gain or
     loss. The federal income tax treatment of ordinary income and capital gain
     and loss is described in the Company's prospectus relating to the Stock
     Purchase Plan.

7.   I hereby agree to be bound by the terms of the Stock Purchase Plan.  The
     effectiveness of this Subscription Agreement is dependent upon my
     eligibility to participate in the Stock Purchase Plan.

8.   In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my
     beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due me under the Stock
     Purchase Plan:


NAME: (Please print) _______________________________________________________
                     (First)                (Middle)                  (Last)


_________________________________   ________________________________________
Relationship

                                    ________________________________________
                                    (Address)


NAME: (Please print) _______________________________________________________
                     (First)                (Middle)                  (Last)

_________________________________   ________________________________________
Relationship

                                    ________________________________________
                                    (Address)


Employee's Social
Security Number: _____________________________

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

Employee's Address:**    ___________________________________

                         ___________________________________

                         ___________________________________


I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT SHALL REMAIN IN EFFECT THROUGHOUT
SUCCESSIVE OFFERING PERIODS UNLESS TERMINATED BY ME.


Dated: ___________________    ________________________________________
                              Signature of Employee


________________________

     **   It is the participant's responsibility to notify the Company's stock
          administrator in the event of a change of address.

                                      -3-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>1996 STOCK PLAN, AS AMENDED
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.4

                                AUTODESK, INC.

                              1996 STOCK PLAN/1/

     1.   Purposes of the Plan.  The purposes of this Stock Plan are:
          --------------------

          .    to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions
               of substantial responsibility,

          .    to provide additional incentive to Employees, and

          .    to promote the success of the Company's business.

     Options granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options or
Nonstatutory Stock Options, as determined by the Administrator at the time of
grant. Stock Purchase Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards may also be
granted under the Plan.

     2.   Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
          -----------

          (a)  "Administrator" means the Board or any of its Committees as shall
                ------------
be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

          (b)  "Applicable Laws" means the legal requirements relating to the
                ---------------
administration of stock option plans under U. S. state corporate laws, U.S.
federal and state securities laws, the Code and the applicable laws of any
foreign country or jurisdiction where Options or Stock Purchase Rights will be
or are being granted under the Plan.

          (c)  "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
                -----

          (d)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
                ----

          (e)  "Committee" means a Committee appointed by the Board in
                ---------
accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

          (f)  "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.
                ------------

          (g)  "Company" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
                -------

          (h)  "Continuous Status as an Employee" means that the employment
                --------------------------------
relationship with the Company, its Parent, or any Subsidiary, is not interrupted
or terminated. Continuous Status as an Employee shall not be considered
interrupted in the case of (i) any leave of absence approved by the Company or
(ii) transfers between locations of the Company or between the Company, its
Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor. A leave of absence approved by the
Company shall include sick

__________________________
/1/ As amended by the Company's Board of Directors on September 9, 1998.

                                                                          Page 1
<PAGE>

leave, military leave, or any other personal leave approved by an authorized
representative of the Company. For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such
leave may exceed ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave
is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave
of absence approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, on the 181st day of
such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Optionee shall cease to be
treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a
Nonstatutory Stock Option.

          (i)  "Director" means a member of the Board.
                --------

          (j)  "Disability" means total and permanent disability as defined in
                ----------
Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.

          (k)  "Employee" means any person, including Officers and Directors,
                --------
employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.  Neither
service as a Director nor payment of a director's fee by the Company shall be
sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.

          (l)  "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                ------------
amended.

          (m)  "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of Common
                -----------------
Stock determined as follows:

               (i)   If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock
exchange or national market system, including without limitation The Nasdaq
National Market or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, its
Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the
closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or system for
the date of such determination, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such
other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

               (ii)  If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized
securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of
a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked
prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in The
Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

               (iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common
Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the
Administrator.

          (n)  "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as
                ----------------------
an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.

          (o)  "Insiders" means individuals subject to Section 16 of the
                --------
Exchange Act.

          (p)  "Long-Term Performance Award" means an award of cash or stock
                ---------------------------
pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan.

                                                                          Page 2
<PAGE>

        (q)  "Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option not intended to qualify
              -------------------------
as an Incentive Stock Option.

        (r)  "Notice of Grant" means a written or electronic notice evidencing
              ---------------
certain terms and conditions of an individual Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Award grant.  The Notice of Grant is part of the Option
Agreement.

        (s)  "Officer" means a person who is an officer of the Company within
              -------
the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.

        (t)  "Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
              ------

        (u)  "Option Agreement" means a written or electronic agreement between
              ----------------
the Company and an Optionee evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual
Option grant.  The Option Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of
the Plan.

        (v)  "Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to an Option, Stock
              --------------
Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award.

        (w)  "Optionee" means an Employee who holds an outstanding Option, Stock
              --------
Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award.

        (x)  "Parent" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter
              ------
existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.

        (y)  "Plan" means this 1996 Stock Plan, as amended.
              ----

        (z)  "Restricted Stock" means shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant
              ----------------
to a grant of Stock Purchase Rights under Section 11 below.

        (aa) "Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement" means a written agreement
              -----------------------------------
between the Company and the Optionee evidencing the terms and restrictions
applying to stock purchased under a Stock Purchase Right.  The Restricted Stock
Purchase Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the
Notice of Grant.

        (bb) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor
              ----------
to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to
the Plan.

        (cc) "Section 16(b)" means Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
              -------------
of 1934, as amended.

        (dd) "Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in
              -----
accordance with Section 14 of the Plan.

                                                                          Page 3
<PAGE>

        (ee) "Stock Purchase Right" means the right to purchase Common Stock
              --------------------
pursuant to Section 11 of the Plan, as evidenced by a Notice of Grant.

        (ff) "Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or
              ----------
hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.

    3.  Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of
        -------------------------
the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned and sold
under the Plan is 3,500,000 shares, plus (a) an annual increase to be made on
the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year equal to the lesser of (i)
500,000 Shares, (ii) 3.5% of the Issued Shares (as defined below) on such date
or (iii) a lesser amount determined by the Board, (b) any Shares which have been
reserved but unissued under the Company's 1987 Stock Option Plan ("1987 Plan")
as of the date of stockholder approval of the original adoption of this Plan not
to exceed 3,000,000 Shares, and (c) any Shares returned to the 1987 Plan as a
result of termination of options under the 1987 Plan not to exceed 9,000,000
Shares.  "Issued Shares" shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock of the
Company outstanding on such date plus any shares reacquired by the Company
during the fiscal year that ends on such date.

        If an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award
expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, the
unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future
grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated); provided,
                                                               --------
however, that Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan, whether upon
exercise of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award,
shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future
distribution under the Plan, except that if Shares of Restricted Stock are
repurchased by the Company at their original purchase price, and the original
purchaser of such Shares did not receive any benefits of ownership of such
Shares, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan. For
purposes of the preceding sentence, voting rights shall not be considered a
benefit of Share ownership.

    4.  Administration of the Plan.
        --------------------------

        (a)  Procedure.
             ---------

             (i)  Multiple Administrative Bodies. If permitted by Rule 16b-3,
                  ------------------------------
the Plan may be administered by different bodies with respect to Directors,
Officers who are not Directors, and Employees who are neither Directors nor
Officers.

             (ii) Administration With Respect to Directors and Officers Subject
                  -------------------------------------------------------------
to Section 16(b). With to Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance
- ----------------
Award grants made to Employees who are also Officers or Directors subject to
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the
Board, if the Board may administer the Plan in a manner complying with the rules
under Rule 16b-3 relating to the disinterested administration of employee
benefit plans under which Section 16(b) exempt discretionary grants and awards
of equity securities are to be made, or (B) a committee designated by the Board
to administer the Plan, which committee shall be constituted to comply with the
rules under Rule 16b-3 relating to the disinterested

                                                                          Page 4
<PAGE>

administration of employee benefit plans under which Section 16(b) exempt
discretionary grants and awards of equity securities are to be made. Once
appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity
until otherwise directed by the Board. From time to time the Board may increase
the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with
or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused),
and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the
Plan, all to the extent permitted by the rules under Rule 16b-3 relating to the
disinterested administration of employee benefit plans under which Section 16(b)
exempt discretionary grants and awards of equity securities are to be made.

            (iii)  Administration With Respect to Other Persons. With respect to
                   --------------------------------------------
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award grants made to
Employees who are neither Directors nor Officers of the Company, the Plan shall
be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a committee designated by the Board,
which committee shall be constituted to satisfy Applicable Laws. Once appointed,
such Committee shall serve in its designated capacity until otherwise directed
by the Board. The Board may increase the size of the Committee and appoint
additional members, remove members (with or without cause) and substitute new
members, fill vacancies (however caused), and remove all members of the
Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to the extent
permitted by Applicable Laws.

        (b) Powers of the Administrator.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
            ---------------------------
and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the
Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its
discretion:

            (i)    to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in
accordance with Section 2(n) of the Plan;

            (ii)   to select the Employees to whom Options, Stock Purchase
Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards may be granted hereunder;

            (iii)  to determine whether and to what extent Options, Stock
Purchase Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards or any combination thereof, are
granted hereunder;

            (iv)   to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be
covered by each Option, Stock Purchase Right and Long-Term Performance Awards
granted hereunder;

            (v)    to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;

            (vi)   to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with
the terms of the Plan, of any award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions
include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when
Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Long-Term Performance Awards may be exercised
(which may be based on performance criteria), any vesting acceleration or waiver
of forfeiture restrictions, and any restriction or limitation regarding any
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Awards or the shares of
Common Stock relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the
Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine;

                                                                          Page 5
<PAGE>

            (vii)  to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and awards
granted pursuant to the Plan;

            (viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations
relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans
established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under
foreign tax laws;

            (ix)   to modify or amend each Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-
Term Performance Awards (subject to Section 16(c) of the Plan), including the
discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of
Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan;

            (x)    to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company
any instrument required to effect the grant of an Option, Stock Purchase Right
or Long-Term Performance Awards previously granted by the Administrator;

            (xi)   to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to
Options, Stock Purchase Rights, Long-Term Performance Awards and any Restricted
Stock; and

            (xii)  to make all other determinations deemed necessary or
advisable for administering the Plan.

        (c) Effect of Administrator's Decision.  The Administrator's decisions,
            ----------------------------------
determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Optionees
and any other holders of Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Long-Term Performance
Awards.

    5.  Eligibility.  Incentive Stock Options, Nonstatutory Stock Options, Stock
        -----------
Purchase Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards may be granted to Employees.
If otherwise eligible, an Employee who has been granted an Option, Stock
Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Awards may be granted additional
Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Long-Term Performance Awards.

    6.  Limitations.
        -----------

        (a) Each Option shall be designated in the written option agreement as
either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.  However,
notwithstanding such designation, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market
Value of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are
exercisable for the first time by the Optionee during any calendar year (under
all plans of the Company and any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such
Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.

        (b) Neither the Plan nor any Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award shall confer upon an Optionee any right with respect to
continuing the Optionee's employment or consulting relationship with the
Company, nor shall they interfere in any

                                                                          Page 6
<PAGE>

way with the Optionee's right or the Company's right to terminate such
employment or consulting relationship at any time, with or without cause.

        (c) The following limitations shall apply to grants of Options to
Employees:

            (i)   No Employee shall be granted, in any fiscal year of the
Company, Options to purchase more than 1,000,000 Shares.

            (ii)  In connection with his or her initial employment, an Employee
may be granted Options to purchase up to an additional 1,000,000 Shares which
shall not count against the limit set forth in subsection (i) above.

            (iii) The foregoing limitations shall be adjusted proportionately in
connection with any change in the Company's capitalization as described in
Section 14.

            (iv)  If an Option is cancelled in the same fiscal year of the
Company in which it was granted (other than in connection with a transaction
described in Section 14), the cancelled Option will be counted against the
limits set forth in subsections (i) and (ii) above.

    7.  Term of Plan.  Subject to Section 20 of the Plan, the Plan shall become
        ------------
effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval
by the stockholders of the Company as described in Section 20 of the Plan.  It
shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless terminated earlier
under Section 16 of the Plan.

    8.  Term of Option.  The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice
        --------------
of Grant; provided, however, that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the
term shall be ten (10) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may
be provided in the Notice of Grant.

    9.  Option Exercise Price and Consideration.
        ---------------------------------------

        (a) Exercise Price.  The per share exercise price for the Shares to be
            --------------
issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be no less than 100% of the Fair
Market Value per Share on the date of grant.

        (b) Waiting Period and Exercise Dates. At the time an Option is granted,
            ---------------------------------
the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be exercised
and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the Option may
be exercised. In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an Option may not
be exercised until either the completion of a service period or the achievement
of performance criteria with respect to the Company or the Optionee.

        (c) Form of Consideration. The Administrator shall determine the
            ---------------------
acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method
of payment. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall
determine the acceptable form of consideration at the time of grant. Such
consideration may consist entirely of:

                                                                          Page 7
<PAGE>

             (i)    cash;

             (ii)   check;

             (iii)  promissory note;

             (iv)   other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon
exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more than six months
on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of
surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said
Option shall be exercised;

             (v)    delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together
with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if
applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to
the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price;

             (vi)   a reduction in the amount of any Company liability to the
Optionee, including any liability attributable to the Optionee's participation
in any Company-sponsored deferred compensation program or arrangement;

             (vii)  any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or

             (viii) such other consideration and method of payment for the
issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

    10.  Exercise of Option.
         ------------------

         (a) Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder. Any Option granted
             -----------------------------------------------
hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such
times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth
in the Option Agreement and the Notice of Grant.

             An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

             An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i)
written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option
Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full
payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised. Full
payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the
Administrator and permitted by the Option Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued
upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Optionee or, if
requested by the Optionee, in the name of the Optionee and his or her spouse.
Until the stock certificate evidencing such Shares is issued (as evidenced by
the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any
other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock,
notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to
be issued) such stock certificate promptly after the Option is exercised. No

                                                                          Page 8
<PAGE>

adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date
is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in
Section 14 of the Plan.

            Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of
Shares thereafter available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under
the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.

        (b) Termination of Employment Relationship.  Upon termination of an
            --------------------------------------
Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, other than upon the Optionee's
death or Disability, the Optionee may exercise his or her Option within such
period of time as is specified in the Notice of Grant to the extent that he or
she is entitled to exercise it on the date of termination (but in no event later
than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of
Grant).  In the absence of a specified time in the Notice of Grant, the Option
shall remain exercisable for three (3) months following the Optionee's
termination.  If, on the date of termination, the Optionee is not entitled to
exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unexercisable
portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan.  If, after termination, the
Optionee does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified by the
Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option
shall revert to the Plan.

        (c) Disability of Optionee. Upon termination of an Optionee's Continuous
            ----------------------
Status as an Employee as a result of the Optionee's Disability, the Optionee may
exercise his or her Option at any time within twelve (12) months (or such other
period of time as is determined by the Administrator) from the date of
termination, but only to the extent that the Optionee is entitled to exercise it
on the date of termination (and in no event later than the expiration of the
term of the Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant). If, on the date of
termination, the Optionee is not entitled to exercise his or her entire Option,
the Shares covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to
the Plan. If, after termination, the Optionee does not exercise his or her
Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the
Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

        (d) Death of Optionee.  In the event of the death of an Optionee, the
            -----------------
Option shall become fully exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would
not otherwise be exercisable and may be exercised at any time within twelve (12)
months (or such other period of time as is determined by the Administrator)
following the date of death (but in no event later than the expiration of the
term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant), by the Optionee's
estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest
or inheritance.  If, after death, the Optionee's estate or a person who acquired
the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance does not exercise the
Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the
Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

        (e) Rule 16b-3.  Options granted to individuals subject to Section 16 of
            ----------
the Exchange Act (Insiders) must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule
16b-3 and shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be
required thereunder to qualify for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the
Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.

                                                                          Page 9
<PAGE>

    11.  Stock Purchase Rights.
         ---------------------

         (a) Rights to Purchase.  Stock Purchase Rights may be issued either
             ------------------
alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other awards granted under the Plan
and/or cash awards made outside of the Plan.  After the Administrator determines
that it will offer Stock Purchase Rights under the Plan, it shall advise the
offeree in writing or electronically, by means of a Notice of Grant, of the
terms, conditions and restrictions related to the offer, including the number of
Shares that the offeree shall be entitled to purchase, the price to be paid
provided, however, that the purchase price shall not be less than the par value
of the Company's Common Stock, and the time within which the offeree must accept
such offer, which shall in no event exceed ninety (90) days from the later of
(i) the date upon which the Administrator made the determination to grant the
Stock Purchase Right, or (ii) the date the Notice of Grant of Stock Purchase
Rights is delivered to the Executive.  The offer shall be accepted by execution
of a Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement in the form determined by the
Administrator.  The number of Shares subject to grants of Stock Purchase Rights
shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total number of Shares authorized
under the Plan.

         (b) Repurchase Option.   The Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement shall
             -----------------
grant the Company a repurchase option exercisable upon the voluntary or
involuntary termination of the purchaser's employment with the Company for any
reason (including Disability); provided, however, that such repurchase option
shall terminate in the event of the death of the Purchaser. In all other cases,
the repurchase option shall lapse at a rate determined by the Administrator;
provided, however that, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no
portion of the repurchase option shall lapse before the end of three years from
the date of purchase of the Restricted Stock. The purchase price for Shares
repurchased pursuant to the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement shall be the
original price paid by the purchaser and may be paid by cancellation of any
indebtedness of the purchaser to the Company.

         (c) Rule 16b-3.  Stock Purchase Rights granted to Insiders, and Shares
             ----------
purchased by Insiders in connection with Stock Purchase Rights, shall be subject
to any restrictions applicable thereto in compliance with Rule 16b-3. An Insider
may only purchase Shares pursuant to the grant of a Stock Purchase Right, and
may only sell Shares purchased pursuant to the grant of a Stock Purchase Right,
during such time or times as are permitted by Rule 16b-3.

         (d) Other Provisions.  The Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement shall
             ----------------
contain such other terms, provisions and conditions not inconsistent with the
Plan as may be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion. In
addition, the provisions of Restricted Stock Purchase Agreements need not be the
same with respect to each purchaser.

         (e) Rights as a Stockholder. Once the Stock Purchase Right is
             -----------------------
exercised, the purchaser shall have the rights equivalent to those of a
stockholder, and shall be a stockholder when his or her purchase is entered upon
the records of the duly authorized transfer agent of the Company. No adjustment
will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to
the date the Stock Purchase Right is exercised, except as provided in Section 14
of the Plan.

                                                                         Page 10
<PAGE>

         (f) Issuance of Shares.  As soon as possible after full payment of the
             ------------------
purchase price, the Shares purchased shall be duly issued; provided, however,
that the Administrator may require that the purchaser make adequate provision
for any Federal and State withholding obligations of the Company as a condition
to such purchase.

         (g) Shares Available Under the Plan. Exercise of a Stock Purchase Right
             -------------------------------
in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares that thereafter
shall be available for reissuance under the Plan.

         (h) Stock Withholding to Satisfy Tax Obligations. The Administrator
             --------------------------------------------
may, in its discretion, permit a purchaser to satisfy any withholding tax
obligation that arises in connection with the vesting of Shares by electing to
have the Company withhold from such vested Shares that number of Shares having a
Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld. Elections by
purchasers to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in writing in
a form acceptable to the Administrator and shall be subject to such restrictions
and limitations as the Administrator may specify.

    12.  Long-Term Performance Awards.
         ----------------------------

         (a) Awards. Long-Term Performance Awards are cash or stock bonus awards
             ------
that may be granted either independently or along with, in addition to or in
tandem with other awards granted under the Plan and/or awards made outside of
the Plan. Long-Term Performance Awards shall not require payment by the
recipient of any consideration for the Long-Term Performance Award or for the
Shares covered by such award. The Administrator shall determine the nature,
length and starting date of any performance period (the "Performance Period")
for each Long-Term Performance Award and shall determine the performance and/or
employment factors to be used in the determination of the value of Long-Term
Performance Awards and the extent to which such Long-Term Performance Awards
have been earned. Shares issued pursuant to a Long-Term Performance Award may be
made subject to various conditions, including vesting or forfeiture provisions.
Long-Term Performance Awards may vary from participant to participant and
between groups of participants and shall be based upon the achievement of
Company, Subsidiary and/or individual performance factors or upon such other
criteria as the Administrator may deem appropriate. Performance Periods may
overlap and participants may participate simultaneously with respect to Long-
Term Performance Awards that are subject to different Performance Periods and
different performance factors and criteria. Long-Term Performance Awards shall
be confirmed by, and be subject to the terms of, a written Long-Term Performance
Award agreement.

         (b) Value of Awards.  At the beginning of each Performance Period, the
             ---------------
Administrator may determine for each Long-Term Performance Award subject to such
Performance Period the range of dollar values and/or numbers of Shares to be
issued to the participant at the end of the Performance Period if and to the
extent that the relevant measures of performance for such Long-Term Performance
Award are met.  Such dollar values or numbers of Shares may be fixed or may vary
in accordance with such performance or other criteria as may be determined by
the Administrator.

                                                                         Page 11
<PAGE>

        (c) Adjustment of Awards.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 16
            --------------------
hereof, the Administrator may, after the grant of Long-Term Performance Awards,
adjust the performance factors applicable to such Long-Term Performance Awards
to take into account changes in the law or in accounting or tax rules and to
make such adjustments as the Administrator deems necessary or appropriate to
reflect the inclusion or exclusion of the impact of extraordinary or unusual
items, events or circumstances in order to avoid windfalls or hardships.

        (d) Termination.  Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Long-Term
            -----------
Performance Award agreement, if a participant terminates his or her employment
or his or her consultancy during a Performance Period because of death or
Disability, the Administrator may in its discretion provide for an earlier
payment in settlement of such award, which payment may be in such amount and
under such terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.

        Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Long-Term Performance Award
agreement, if a participant terminates employment or his or her consultancy
during a Performance Period for any reason other than death or Disability, then
such a participant shall not be entitled to any payment with respect to the
Long-Term Performance Award subject to such Performance Period, unless the
Administrator shall otherwise determine in its discretion.

        (e) Form of Payment.  The earned portion of a Long-Term Performance
            ---------------
Award may be paid currently or on a deferred basis (with such interest or
earnings equivalent as may be determined by the Administrator).  Payment shall
be made in the form of cash or whole Shares (including Restricted Stock), or a
combination thereof, either in a lump sum payment or in installments, all as the
Administrator shall determine.

        (f) Reservation of Shares.  In the event that the Administrator grants a
            ---------------------
Long-Term Performance Award that is payable in cash or Common Stock, the
Administrator may (but need not) reserve an appropriate number of Shares under
the Plan at the time of grant of the Long-Term Performance Award.  If and to the
extent that the full amount reserved is not actually paid in Common Stock, the
Shares representing the portion of the reserve for that Long-Term Performance
Award that is not actually issued in satisfaction of such Long-Term Performance
Award shall again become available for award under the Plan.  If Shares are not
reserved by the Administrator at the time of grant, then (i) no Shares shall be
deducted from the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan at that
time and (ii) at the time of payment of the Long-Term Performance Award, only
the number of Shares actually issued to the participant shall be so deducted.
If there are not a sufficient number of Shares available under the Plan for
issuance to a participant at the time of payment of a Long-Term Performance
Award, any shortfall shall be paid by the Company in cash.

        (g) Rule 16b-3.  Grants of Long-Term Performance Awards to Directors and
            ----------
Officers must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 and such Long-
Term Performance Awards shall contain such additional conditions or
restrictions, if any, as may be required by Rule 16b-3 to be in the written
agreement relating to such Long-Term Performance Awards in order to qualify for
the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan
transactions.

                                                                         Page 12
<PAGE>

    13. Non-Transferability of Options, Stock Purchase Rights and Long-Term
        -------------------------------------------------------------------
Performance Awards.  An Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance
- ------------------
Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed
of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution
and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee.

    14. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or Asset
        ------------------------------------------------------------------------
Sale.
- ----

        (a) Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required action by the
            -------------------------
stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding
Option, Long-Term Performance Award and Stock Purchase Right, and the number of
Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no
Options, Long-Term Performance Awards or Stock Purchase Rights have yet been
granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration
of an Option, Long-Term Performance Award or Stock Purchase Right, as well as
the price per Share  covered by each such outstanding Option, Long-Term
Performance Award or Stock Purchase Right, shall be proportionately adjusted for
any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares  resulting from a stock
split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of
the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued
Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided,
however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not
be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration."  Such
adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall
be final, binding and conclusive.  Except as expressly provided herein, no
issuance by the Company of Shares of stock of any class, or securities
convertible into Shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment
by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares
subject to an Option, Long-Term Performance Award or Stock Purchase Right.

        (b) Dissolution or Liquidation.  In the event of the proposed
            --------------------------
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each
Optionee as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed
transaction.  The Administrator in its discretion may provide for an Optionee to
have the right to exercise his or her Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the
Optioned Stock covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Option would
not otherwise be exercisable.  In addition, the Administrator may provide that
any Company repurchase option applicable to any Shares purchased upon exercise
of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award shall lapse as
to all such Shares, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place
at the time and in the manner contemplated.  To the extent it has not been
previously exercised, an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance
Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed
action.

        (c) Merger or Asset Sale.  In the event of a merger of the Company with
            --------------------
or into another corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of
the Company, each outstanding Option, Stock Purchase Right and Long-Term
Performance Award shall be assumed or an equivalent option or right substituted
by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor
corporation, or in the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or
substitute for the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award,
the Optionee shall have the right

                                                                         Page 13
<PAGE>

to exercise the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award as
to all of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to which it would not
otherwise be exercisable. If an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award is exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the
event of a merger or sale of assets, the Administrator shall notify the Optionee
in writing or electronically that the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award shall be fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days
from the date of such notice, and the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award shall terminate upon the expiration of such period. For the
purposes of this paragraph, the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or sale
of assets, the option or right confers the right to purchase or receive, for
each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Award immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets,
the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property)
received in the merger or sale of assets by holders of Common Stock for each
Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered
a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a
majority of the outstanding Shares); provided, however, that if such
consideration received in the merger or sale of assets was not solely common
stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with
the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be
received upon the exercise of the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option, Stock
Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award, to be solely common stock of the
successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share
consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the merger or sale of
assets.

    15.  Date of Grant.  The date of grant of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or
         -------------
Long-Term Performance Award shall be, for all purposes, the date on which the
Administrator makes the determination granting such Option, Stock Purchase Right
or Long-Term Performance Award, or such other later date as is determined by the
Administrator.  Notice of the determination shall be provided to each Optionee
within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.

    16.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
         -------------------------------------

         (a) Amendment and Termination.  The Board may at any time amend, alter,
             -------------------------
suspend or terminate the Plan.

         (b) Stockholder Approval. The Company shall obtain stockholder approval
             --------------------
of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule
16b-3 or with Sections 162(m) or 422 of the Code (or any successor rule or
statute or other applicable law, rule or regulation, including the requirements
of any exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or
quoted). Such stockholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a
manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or
regulation.

         (c) Effect of Amendment or Termination.  No amendment, alteration,
             ----------------------------------
suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Optionee,
unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and the Administrator,
which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the Company.

                                                                         Page 14
<PAGE>

    17.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.
         ----------------------------------

         (a) Legal Compliance.  Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the
             ----------------
exercise of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award
unless the exercise of such Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with
all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder, Applicable Laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange or
quotation system upon which the Shares may then be listed or quoted, and shall
be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to
such compliance.

         (b) Investment Representations.  As a condition to the exercise of an
             --------------------------
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award, the Company may
require the person exercising such Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that
the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present
intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for
the Company, such a representation is required.

    18.  Liability of Company.
         --------------------

         (a) Inability to Obtain Authority.  The inability of the Company to
             -----------------------------
obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority
is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and
sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in
respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite
authority shall not have been obtained.

         (b) Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares.  If the Optioned Stock covered by
             --------------------------------
an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award exceeds, as of
the date of grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan
without additional stockholder approval, such Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Award shall be void with respect to such excess Optioned
Stock, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the
number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with
Section 16(b) of the Plan.

    19.  Reservation of Shares.  The Company, during the term of this Plan, will
         ---------------------
at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

    20.  Stockholder Approval.  Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to
         --------------------
approval by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or
after the date the Plan is adopted.  Such stockholder approval shall be obtained
in the manner and to the degree required under applicable federal and state law.

                                                                         Page 15
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>RESTRICTED STOCK PURCHASE PLAN -- BUZZSAW.COM
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.8

                               BUZZSAW.COM, INC.
                      RESTRICTED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT

     This RESTRICTED STOCK PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made between
_________________("Purchaser") and buzzsaw.com, inc., a Delaware corporation
(the "Company"), as of September __, 1999.

     In consideration of the mutual covenants and representations herein set
forth, the Company and Purchaser hereby agree as follows:

     1.   Purchase and Sale of Shares.  Purchaser hereby purchases from the
          ---------------------------
Company, and the Company hereby issues and sells to Purchaser, an aggregate of
__________ shares of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined) (the "Shares"), at a
price of $0.10 per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $____________ (the
"Aggregate Purchase Price").  The Company shall, promptly after execution of
this Agreement, issue a certificate representing the Shares registered in the
name of Purchaser.

     2.   Adjustments.  All references to the number of Shares and the purchase
          -----------
price of the Shares in this Agreement shall be appropriately adjusted to reflect
any further stock split, stock dividend or other change in the Shares which may
be made by the Company after the date of this Agreement.

     3.   Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
          -----------

          (a) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

          (b) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

          (c) "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.

     4.   Ownership, Voting Rights, Duties.  This Agreement shall not affect in
          --------------------------------
any way the ownership, voting rights or other rights or duties of Purchaser,
except as specifically provided herein. Purchaser shall enjoy rights as a
shareholder, including the right to vote the Shares independent of voting
positions held by Autodesk, Inc. or any other shareholder of the Company, until
such time as Purchaser disposes of the Shares.

     5.   Restrictive Legends; Stop-Transfer Orders; Market Standoff.
          ----------------------------------------------------------

          (a) Legends. Purchaser understands and agrees that the Company shall
              -------
cause the legends set forth below or legends substantially equivalent thereto,
to be placed upon any certificate(s) evidencing ownership of the Shares together
with any other legends that may be required by state or federal securities laws:

          THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE
          SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR
          OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED OR HYPOTHECATED UNLESS AND UNTIL
          REGISTERED UNDER THE ACT OR, IN THE

                                       1
<PAGE>

          OPINION OF COUNSEL IN FORM AND SUBSTANCE SATISFACTORY TO THE ISSUER OF
          THESE SECURITIES, SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR
          HYPOTHECATION IS IN COMPLIANCE THEREWITH.

          THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN
          RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE
          ISSUER OR ITS ASSIGNEE(S) AS SET FORTH IN A RESTRICTED STOCK PURCHASE
          AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE ISSUER AND THE ORIGINAL HOLDER OF THESE SHARES,
          A COPY OF WHICH MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE PRINCIPAL OFFICE OF THE ISSUER.
          SUCH TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS ARE BINDING ON
          TRANSFEREES OF THESE SHARES.

          (b)  Stop-Transfer Notices.  Purchaser agrees that, in order to ensure
               ---------------------
compliance with the restrictions referred to herein, the Company may issue
appropriate "stop transfer" instructions to its transfer agent, if any, and
that, if the Company  transfers its own securities, it may make appropriate
notations to the same effect in its own records.

          (c)  Market Standoff. Purchaser hereby agrees that if so requested by
               ---------------
the Company or any representative of the underwriters in connection with any
registration of the offering of any securities of the Company under the
Securities Act, Purchaser shall not sell or otherwise transfer any Shares or
other securities of the Company during such period as the Company and the
representatives of the underwriters may request (not to exceed 180 days)
following the effective date of any registration statement of the Company filed
under the Securities Act for an underwritten public offering. Purchaser's
obligation shall also be subject to equal and pro rata treatment with any other
shareholder of the Company that is released early from such market standoff
obligation. The Company may impose stop-transfer instructions with respect to
Shares subject to the foregoing restrictions until the end of such market
standoff period.

          (d)  Refusal to Transfer. The Company shall not be required (i) to
               -------------------
transfer on its books any Shares that have been sold or otherwise transferred in
violation of any of the provisions of this Agreement or (ii) to treat as owner
of such Shares or to accord the right to vote or pay dividends to any purchaser
or other transferee to whom such Shares shall have been so transferred.

     6.   Representations.
          ---------------

          (a)  Investment Representation. Purchaser represents to the Company
               -------------------------
the following:

               (i)  Purchaser either (1) has a preexisting personal or business
relationship with the Company or any of its officers, directors or controlling
persons, or (2) by reason of Purchaser's business or financial experience or the
business or financial experience of Purchaser's professional advisors who are
unaffiliated with and who are not compensated by the Company or any affiliate or
selling agent of the Company, directly or indirectly, could be reasonably
assumed to have the capacity to protect Purchaser's own interests in connection
with the purchase of the Shares.

                                       2
<PAGE>

               (ii)   Purchaser is aware of the Company's business affairs and
financial condition and has acquired sufficient information about the Company to
reach an informed and knowledgeable decision to acquire the Shares. Purchaser is
acquiring these Shares for investment for Purchaser's own account only and not
with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any "distribution" thereof
within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities
Act").

               (iii)  Purchaser acknowledges and understands that the Shares
constitute "restricted securities" under the Securities Act and have not been
registered under the Securities Act in reliance upon a specific exemption
therefrom, which exemption depends upon, among other things, the bona fide
nature of Purchaser's investment intent as expressed herein. In this connection,
Purchaser understands that, in the view of the Securities and Exchange
Commission, the statutory basis for such exemption may be unavailable if
Purchaser's representation was predicated solely upon a present intention to
hold these Shares for the minimum capital gains period specified under tax
statutes, for a deferred sale, for or until an increase or decrease in the
market price of the Shares, or for a period of one year or any other fixed
period in the future. Purchaser further understands that the Shares must be held
indefinitely unless they are subsequently registered under the Securities Act or
an exemption from such registration is available. Purchaser further acknowledges
and understands that the Company is under no obligation to register the Shares.
Purchaser understands that the certificate evidencing the Shares shall be
imprinted with a legend which prohibits the transfer of the Shares unless they
are registered or such registration is not required in the opinion of counsel
satisfactory to the Company, a legend enumerating the restrictions on transfer
of the Shares, and any other legend required under applicable state securities
laws.

               (iv)   Purchaser understands that the Shares are restricted
securities within the meaning of Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act,
which limits the sale of Shares in a public market transaction. Purchaser also
understands that the exemption from registration under Rule 144 shall not be
available, in any event, for at least one (1) year from the date of purchase of
and actual payment for the Shares, and even then shall not be available unless
(A) a public trading market then exists for the Common Stock, (B) adequate
information concerning the Company is then available to the public, and (C)
other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are complied with. Purchaser understands
that there can be no assurance that the requirements of Rule 144 shall be met,
or that the Shares shall ever be eligible for sale.

               (v)    Purchaser further understands that in the event all of the
applicable requirements of Rule 144 are not satisfied, registration under the
Securities Act, compliance with Regulation A, or some other registration
exemption shall be required; and that, notwithstanding the fact that Rule 144 is
not exclusive, the Staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission has expressed
its opinion that persons proposing to sell private placement securities other
than in a registered offering and otherwise than pursuant to Rule 144 shall have
a substantial burden of proof in establishing that an exemption from
registration is available for such offers or sales, and that such persons and
their respective brokers who participate in such transactions do so at their own
risk. Purchaser understands that no assurances can be given that any such other
registration exemption shall be available in such event.

               (b)    Tax Representations. Purchaser has reviewed with its own
                      -------------------
tax advisors the federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of this
investment and the transactions

                                       3
<PAGE>

contemplated by this Agreement. Purchaser is relying solely on such advisors and
not on any statements or representations of the Company or any of its agents.
Purchaser understands that it (and not the Company) shall be responsible for its
own tax liability that may arise as a result of this investment or the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement.

     7.   Additional Actions. The parties shall execute such further instruments
          ------------------
and take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the
intent of this Agreement.

     8.   Notices.  All notices and other communications required or permitted
          -------
hereunder shall be in writing, shall be effective when given, and shall in any
event be deemed to be given (a) five (5) days after deposit with the U.S. Postal
Service, if delivered by first class mail, postage prepaid, (b) upon delivery,
if delivered by hand, or (c) one business day after the business day of deposit
with Federal Express or similar overnight courier, freight prepaid, and shall be
addressed (i) if to Purchaser, at Purchaser's address as set forth beneath
Purchaser's signature to this Agreement, or at such other address as Purchaser
shall have furnished to the Company in writing, (ii) if to the Company, to
buzzsaw.com, inc., at Company's address as set forth beneath Company's signature
to this Agreement, or at such other address as the Company shall have furnished
to Purchaser, or (iii) if to the Escrow Agent, to the Corporate Secretary of
buzzsaw.com, inc. at Company's address as set forth beneath Company's signature
to this Agreement, or at such other address as the Escrow Agent shall have
furnished to the parties.

     9.   Assignment.  The Company may assign its rights and delegate its duties
          ----------
under this Agreement. If any such assignment or delegation requires consent of
the California Department of Corporations, the parties agree to cooperate in
requesting such consent. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the
successors and assigns of the Company and, subject to the restrictions on
transfer herein set forth, be binding upon Purchaser, Purchaser's heirs,
executors, administrators, successors and assigns.

     10.  Entire Agreement; Amendment.  This constitutes the full and entire
          ---------------------------
understanding and agreement between the parties with regard to the subjects
hereof and thereof, and no party shall be liable or bound to any other party in
any manner by any warranties, representations or covenants except as
specifically set forth herein. Except as expressly provided herein, neither this
Agreement nor any term hereof may be amended, waived, discharged or terminated
other than by a written instrument signed by the party against whom enforcement
of any such amendment, waiver, discharge or termination is sought.

     11.  Arbitration.  At the option of either party, any and all disputes or
          -----------
controversies, whether of law or fact, and of any nature whatsoever arising from
or respecting this agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided herein, shall
be decided by arbitration by the American Arbitration Association in accordance
with the rules and regulations of that Association.

          (a)  The arbitrators shall be selected as follows: In the event the
Company and Purchaser agree on one arbitrator, the arbitration shall be
conducted by such arbitrator. In the event the Company and Purchaser do not so
agree, the Company and Purchaser shall each select one independent, qualified
arbitrator and these two arbitrators shall select a third arbitrator. The
Company reserves the right to reject any individual arbitrator who shall be
employed by or affiliated with a competing organization.

                                       4
<PAGE>

          (b)  Arbitration shall take place in San Francisco County, California,
or any other location mutually agreeable to the parties. At the request of
either party, arbitration proceedings shall be conducted in secrecy. In such
case all documents, testimony, and records shall be received, heard, and
maintained by the arbitrators in secrecy under seal, available for inspection
only by the Company and Purchaser and their respective attorneys and their
respective experts who shall agree in advance and in writing to receive all such
information confidentially and to maintain such information in secrecy until
such information shall become generally known. The arbitrator, who shall act by
majority vote, shall be able to decree any and all relief of an equitable
nature, including but not limited to such relief as a temporary restraining
order, a temporary or a permanent injunction, or both, and shall also be able to
award damages, with or without an accounting, costs, and reasonable attorneys'
fees. The decree or judgment of an award rendered by the arbitrators may be
entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.

          (c)  Reasonable notice of the time and place of arbitration shall be
given to all persons, other than the parties, as shall be required by law, in
which case such persons or their authorized representatives shall have the right
to attend and participate in all the arbitration hearings to the extent and in
such manner as the law shall require.

     12.  Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and
          -------------
enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California as they apply to
contracts entered into and wholly to be performed within such state.

     13.  Advice of Counsel; Board Interpretations.  Purchaser has reviewed this
          ----------------------------------------
Agreement in its entirety, has had an opportunity to obtain the advice of
counsel prior to executing this Agreement and fully understands all provisions
hereof.  Purchaser hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all
decisions or interpretations of the Board upon any questions arising under this
Agreement.

     14.  Waiver.  The failure of either party hereto to enforce any provision
          ------
or provisions of this Agreement shall not in any way be construed as a waiver of
any such provision or provisions, nor prevent that party thereafter from
enforcing each and every other provision of this Agreement. The rights granted
both parties herein are cumulative and shall not constitute a waiver of either
party's right to assert all other legal remedies available to it under the
circumstances.

                                       5
<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement is deemed made as of the date first set
forth above.

                                           "COMPANY"

                                           _____________________________________
                                           Carl Bass
                                           President and Chief Executive Officer
                                           buzzsaw.com, inc.

                                           "PURCHASER"

                                           _____________________________________

                                           Name:________________________________
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                        SUBSIDIARIES OF AUTODESK, INC.
                        -----------------------------

The Registrant owns 100% of the outstanding voting securities of the following
corporations, as of January 31, 2000, all of which are included in the
Registrant's consolidated financial statements:

                                                          Jurisdiction of
              Name                                        Incorporation
    ----------------------                              -------------------
    Autodesk (Europe) S.A.                              Switzerland
    Autodesk AB                                         Sweden
    Autodesk AG                                         Switzerland
    Autodesk de Argentina S.A.                          Argentina
    Autodesk Asia Pte. Ltd.                             Singapore
    Autodesk Australia Pty. Ltd.                        Australia
    Autodesk do Brazil Ltda                             Brazil
    Autodesk B.V.                                       Netherlands
    Autodesk Canada Inc.                                Canada
    Autodesk Development Africa (Pty) Ltd.              Republic of South Africa
    Autodesk Development B.V.                           Netherlands
    Autodesk Development Canada Inc.                    Canada
    Autodesk Development S.a.r.l.                       Switzerland
    Autodesk (EMEA) S.A.                                Switzerland
    Autodesk Far East Ltd.                              Hong Kong
    Autodesk GesmbH                                     Austria
    Autodesk GmbH                                       Germany
    Autodesk India Pte. Ltd.                            India
    Autodesk International Holding Co.                  Delaware
    Autodesk International Ltd.                         Barbados
    Autodesk Ireland Ltd.                               Ireland
    Autodesk Korea Ltd.                                 Korea
    Autodesk Ltd.                                       United Kingdom
    Autodesk Ltd. Japan                                 Japan
    Autodesk de Mexico S.A. de C.V.                     Mexico
    Autodesk CIS (ZAO)                                  Russia-C.I.S.
    Autodesk S.A. (Spain)                               Spain
    Autodesk S.A.                                       France
    Autodesk S.p.A.                                     Italy
    Autodesk Software Lda                               Portugal
    Autodesk Spol. s.r.o                                Czech Republic
    Autodesk, Taiwan Ltd.                               Taiwan
    Discreet Logic Inc.                                 Canada
    Discreet Logic (Brazil) Industria e Comercio Ltda   Brazil
    Discreet, Inc.                                      Delaware
    Discreet Logic, Inc.                                Delaware
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 No. 33-15675, No. 33-22656, No. 33-39458, No. 33-41265, No. 33-51110,
No. 33-54683, No. 33-61015, No. 333-08693, No. 333-15037, No. 333-24469, No.
333-62655, No. 333-74651, No. 333-81207 and No. 333-92539) pertaining to the
1987 Stock Option Plan, 1990 Directors' Option Plan, 1996 Stock Plan, Employee
Qualified Stock Purchase Plan, Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan and the 1998
Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan of Autodesk, Inc., the Teleos Research
1996 Stock Plan and the Softdesk, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, Softdesk, Inc.
1993 Director Stock Option Plan and Softdesk, Inc. 1993 Equity Incentive Plan,
and the Discreet Logic Inc. Amended and Restated 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock
Option Plan, Discreet Logic Inc. 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, Discreet
Logic, Inc. 1995 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, and Discreet Logic,
Inc. 1997 Special Limited Non-Employee Director Stock Plan, of our report dated
February 18, 2000, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and
schedule of Autodesk, Inc. included in its Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the
year ended January 31, 2000.


                                            /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


San Jose, California
April 12, 2000

                                      57
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JAN-31-2000
<PERIOD-START>                             FEB-01-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               JAN-31-2000
<CASH>                                         108,641
<SECURITIES>                                   250,290
<RECEIVABLES>                                  121,491
<ALLOWANCES>                                    10,652
<INVENTORY>                                     19,264
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               545,259
<PP&E>                                         165,251
<DEPRECIATION>                                 123,367
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 907,326
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          299,392
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                       561,814
<OTHER-SE>                                      40,485
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   907,326
<SALES>                                        820,182
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               820,182
<CGS>                                          143,871
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  672,016
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                 3,532
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 958
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                 23,920
<INCOME-TAX>                                    14,112
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              9,808
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     9,808
<EPS-BASIC>                                       0.16
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.16


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
