-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NYcIvPD6/nD5J0Fa/Hzg+GtYxGx9NV2O9UDfjZi9kW8zzMtA31FZtjSDWSTplDOK
 gl9CtNHoCbIzmifWmXC3ow==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000050863-96-000002.txt : 19960401
<SEC-HEADER>0000050863-96-000002.hdr.sgml : 19960401
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000050863-96-000002
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19951230
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960329
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTEL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050863
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941672743
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06217
		FILM NUMBER:		96540616

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087658080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RN6-27
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95052-8119
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

                              UNITED STATES
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                         Washington, D.C. 20549

                                FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934 (Fee Required)  
            For the fiscal year ended December 30, 1995, OR

[ ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
     Exchange Act of 1934 (No Fee Required)
     For the transition period from ___________to___________

Commission File Number 0-6217

                             INTEL CORPORATION
          (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
            Delaware                                           94-1672743
 (State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
  incorporation or organization)                           Identification No.)

   2200 Mission College Boulevard, Santa Clara, California, 95052-8119
            (Address of principal executive offices, Zip Code)

    Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 765-8080

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class                                   Name of each exchange on
                                                          which registered
                                   NONE

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                      Common Stock, $.001 par value
             1998 Step-Up Warrants to Purchase Common Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES__X__  NO_____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K. [  ]

                Aggregate market value of voting stock held
         by non-affiliates of the registrant as of February 24, 1996

                              $46.67 billion

   821.2 million shares of Common Stock outstanding as of February 24, 1996

                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)     Portions of Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended 
        December 30, 1995 - Part II, and Part IV.
(2)     Portions of Proxy Statement dated April 4, 1996 - Part III.




PAGE 2
PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INDUSTRY

Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively called "Intel," the 
"Company" or the "Registrant") operates predominantly in one industry segment. 
The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets microcomputer 
components and related products at various levels of integration. 

Intel components consist of silicon-based semiconductors etched with complex 
patterns of transistors. Each one of these integrated circuits can perform the 
functions of thousands--even millions--of individual transistors, diodes, 
capacitors and resistors. 

PRODUCTS

The Company's major products include microprocessors and related board-level 
products, chipsets, embedded processors and microcontrollers, flash memory 
chips, network and communications products and conferencing products.

Microprocessors and Related Board-Level Products.
- -------------------------------------------------
A microprocessor is the central processing unit of a computer system. It 
processes system data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the 
brains of a computer. Intel's flagship microprocessors include the Pentium(R)
Pro and the Pentium(R) microprocessor families.

Intel-designed board-level products are used as basic building blocks for 
consumer, technical and commercial computing applications. Many original 
equipment manufacturers (OEMs) use Intel's board-level products to build their 
own PCs, microcomputers, real-time control systems and other products. OEM 
customers buy at this level of integration to accelerate their time-to-market 
and to direct their investments to other areas of their product lines. The 
Company provides board-level products to give OEM customers flexibility by 
enabling them to choose whether to buy at the component or board-level.

Intel's developments in the area of semiconductor design and manufacturing 
have made it possible to decrease the feature size of circuits etched into 
silicon. This permits a greater number of transistors to be used on each 
microprocessor, and a greater number of microprocessors to be placed on each 
silicon wafer. The result is microprocessors that are smaller, faster, consume 
less power and cost less to manufacture. In 1995, the Company ramped its first 
production on its most advanced 0.35 micron process technology. Intel plans to 
add additional 0.35 micron capacity in 1996, enabling very high-volume 
production of its newest, fastest Pentium Pro and Pentium microprocessors.

During 1995, the rapid transition of the PC market to the Pentium 
microprocessor continued. Quarterly unit shipments of the Pentium 
microprocessor family surpassed the Intel486(TM) microprocessor family in the 
third quarter of 1995. The Pentium microprocessors now power entry-level to 
high-end computers. Intel significantly enhanced the performance of the 
Pentium microprocessor family in 1995, introducing new versions operating at 
120 and 133 MHz, and in January of 1996, 150 and 166 MHz. Intel plans to 
introduce to the market higher performance versions of the Pentium 
microprocessor, including versions with enhancements to improve performance of 
multimedia and communications applications. Intel also introduced, in 1995, 
new 90- and 120-MHz versions, and in early 1996, a 133-MHz version of the 
Pentium microprocessor for mobile computers that have lower power consumption 
and a smaller package than the desktop/server version.




PAGE 3
MICROPROCESSORS AND RELATED BOARD-LEVEL PRODUCTS, CONTINUED.
- ------------------------------------------------------------
In late 1995, Intel introduced its sixth-generation processor, the Pentium 
Pro microprocessor at speeds of 150, 166, 180 and 200MHz. The Pentium Pro 
microprocessor is fully compatible with prior generations and delivers 
performance comparable to that of high-end workstations. The Pentium Pro 
microprocessor uses Intel's Dynamic Execution architecture to increase the 
amount of work that can be done in parallel. In 1996, Pentium Pro 
microprocessors are expected to be used for enterprise server applications and 
business desktops utilizing full 32-bit software environments such as Windows 
NT*. The Pentium Pro microprocessor also offers enhanced multiprocessing and 
manageability features for high-performance desktops and servers. The Pentium 
Pro microprocessor uses a high-speed bus between the CPU and second-level 
cache memory to provide optimum performance.

Sales of the Pentium microprocessor family comprised a majority of the 
Company's revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin in 1995.  A 
significant and growing portion of the Company's revenues and gross margins 
were derived from sales of the Pentium microprocessor family in 1994. During 
1995, the Intel486 microprocessor family represented a significant but rapidly
declining portion of the Company's revenues and gross margins.  The Intel486 
microprocessor family comprised a majority of the Company's revenues and a 
substantial majority of its gross margin during 1994 and 1993. The Intel486 
microprocessor products are now offered primarily for embedded applications.

During 1995, Overdrive(R) processors, a family of upgrade microprocessors, 
expanded to include products based on the Pentium microprocessor that will 
allow users to upgrade their Intel486 microprocessor systems. In early 1996, 
Intel announced Overdrive processors that upgrade systems to equivalents of 
120-, 125- and 133-MHz versions of the Pentium microprocessor.

CHIPSETS.  The Company's core-logic chipsets support incremental performance,
ease-of-use and new capabilities for systems based on Intel's Pentium and 
Pentium Pro microprocessors. Based on these incremental capabilities, and the
growth of the Pentium microprocessor-based systems, Intel has become a 
significant supplier of core-logic chipsets. The Intel 430FX chipset 
introduced in early 1995, won numerous awards and has become one of the most 
popular chipsets in the industry. Intel plans to introduce several new members
of this product family in 1996.

Based on the Peripheral Components Interconnect (PCI) bus, the Intel 430 
PCIset family for the Pentium microprocessors and the Intel 440 PCIset family 
for the Pentium Pro microprocessors support and extend the graphic, video and 
other capabilities of many Intel processor-based systems.

EMBEDDED PROCESSORS AND MICROCONTROLLERS.
- -----------------------------------------  
Intel provides embedded products such as microprocessors, microcontrollers and 
memory components to application segments that are focused on enhancing the PC 
and voice and data communication. Embedded products are used in many 
peripheral devices, including keyboards, printers, networks, copiers and fax 
machines, which enhance the PC's capabilities and make it easier to use. In 
addition, embedded products are improving the functionality of wireless 
communication devices such as cellular phones and pagers, and enabling the 
development of new peripherals such as digital cameras and personal digital 
assistants. Intel's embedded products provide advanced technology to other 
market segments as well, including commercial and military avionics, medical 
instrumentation, automotive and factory automation control products.

Intel's embedded products line consists of 32-bit processors, including the 
i960(R) processor family and the embedded Intel386(TM) and Intel486 processor 
families; the 80C186 16-bit processor family; MCS(R) 96 16-bit
microcontrollers, and 8-bit microcontrollers, such as the MCS 51 and MCS 251 
microcontroller families.

The Company introduced several embedded control products in 1995, including 
the 80960RP processor, used in server motherboards and adapter cards connected 
to servers; the 83C196EA and 87C196CB 16-bit microcontrollers for automotive 
and industrial applications, and the 8xC51RA/RB/RC 8-bit microcontrollers. 
During 1995, Intel also started shipping in volume its new MCS 251 
microcontroller, the 8xC251SB. Intel has begun to implement the Universal 
Serial Bus (USB) specification in microcontroller products.

________________________


*  Other brands and names are the property of their respective owners.




PAGE 4
FLASH MEMORY PRODUCTS.  Memory components are used to store user data and 
computer program code. Flash memory retains information when the power is off. 
Intel is a leader in flash applications, such as PC BIOS, cellular phones and 
networking. The Company was a key player in defining and promoting the 
Miniature Card specification for low-cost, very small form-factor flash cards 
to be used in a variety of consumer electronics applications.  In 1995, Intel 
expanded its SmartVoltage memory product line with additional densities and a 
low-voltage device targeted for the mobile market.

NETWORK AND COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS. These hardware and software products are 
sold to corporate network administrators and PC users through distributor and 
reseller channels. The product line improves the performance, capabilities and 
manageability of PC desktop and server systems in corporate networks.

Intel's networking products are designed to provide high-bandwidth 
communications to PC desktop and server systems, and to make it easier for LAN 
administrators to install and manage their systems. The architecture that 
delivers this management capability is called Smart Network Services.

Intel's networking products consist of LAN products, such as the 
EtherExpress(TM) family of adapters and Express Stackable Hubs, and network 
management products, including the LANDesk(R) Management Group of products.

Supporting the Smart Network Services strategy are new or upgraded LAN 
products: EtherExpress PRO adapters that use flash memory for one-step 
installation and configuration; EtherExpress PRO/100, a fast Ethernet adapter 
that can operate at 10 or 100 megabytes per second; Express Stackable Hubs; 
StorageExpress(TM) backup servers; NetportExpress(TM) print servers; LANDesk 
Management Suite software, which combines management of desktop systems and 
servers on LANs; LANDesk Workgroup Manager; LANDesk Server Manager Pro; and 
LANDesk Virus Protect.

CONFERENCING PRODUCTS.  In 1994, Intel introduced its ProShare conferencing 
products. This product line includes Intel's ProShare(TM) Conferencing Video 
System 200, a PC-based video-conferencing system that offers full application 
and document sharing and is certified in over 25 countries.  It gives users 
powerful information-sharing capabilities and an innovative way to convey 
ideas. ProShare conferencing products deliver instant communications.

The ProShare Conferencing Video System 200 supports video and data conferences 
over ISDN or corporate LAN/WAN networks. The product supports industry 
standards, such as the H.320 international telecommunications standard, to 
conduct video conferences with other H.320-compliant products, including room 
conferencing systems. 

In 1995, the ProShare Conferencing Video System 200 became one of the 
industry's leading desktop conferencing products. This system won many industry
awards, including "Editors' Choice" from PC Magazine UK, CADENCE magazine and 
PC Laptop Computers magazine.            --------------  -------
- -------------------

Also in 1995, Intel introduced the ProShare TeamStation, a group video 
conferencing system for meeting rooms, with all the features of the ProShare 
Conferencing Video System 200.




PAGE 5
MANUFACTURING

A majority of the Company's wafer production and some assembly and final 
testing of VLSI (very large-scale integration) components are conducted at 
domestic Intel facilities in Chandler, Arizona; Aloha, Oregon; Santa Clara and 
Folsom, California; and Rio Rancho, New Mexico.  A significant portion of 
Intel's production of microprocessor board-level products and systems takes 
place at facilities in Hillsboro, Oregon and Las Piedras, Puerto Rico.

Outside the United States, a significant portion of Intel's VLSI wafer 
production, including microprocessor fabrication, is conducted at plants in 
Jerusalem, Israel and Leixlip, Ireland.  A significant portion of Pentium 
processor production is conducted at the Ireland site. A majority of the 
Company's VLSI component assembly and testing is performed at facilities in 
Penang, Malaysia and Manila, Philippines. A significant portion of Intel's 
production of microprocessor board-level products and systems is conducted at 
facilities in Leixlip, Ireland and Penang, Malaysia.

In general, if Intel were unable to fabricate wafers or assemble or test its 
products abroad, or if air transportation between its foreign facilities and 
the United States were disrupted, there could be a materially adverse effect 
upon the Company's operations.  In addition to normal manufacturing risks, 
foreign operations are subject to certain additional exposures, including 
political instability, currency controls and fluctuations, and tariff and 
import restrictions.  To date, Intel has not experienced significant 
difficulties related to these foreign business risks.   

To augment capacity, Intel uses subcontractors to perform assembly of certain 
products and wafer fabrication for certain VLSI components, primarily flash 
memory and chipsets, and for production capacity of board-level products. A 
significant portion of Intel's production of board-level products is conducted 
through the use of subcontractors in Penang, Malaysia. The Company cannot give 
assurances that it will be able to fully satisfy demand for certain of these 
products.

The manufacture of integrated circuits is a complex process.  Normal 
manufacturing risks include errors in the fabrication process, defects in raw 
materials, as well as other factors, all of which can affect yields.


EMPLOYEES

At December 30, 1995, the Company employed approximately 41,600 people 
worldwide.


SALES

Most of Intel's products are sold or licensed through sales offices located 
near major concentrations of users throughout the United States, Europe, 
Japan, Asia-Pacific and other parts of the world.  

The Company also uses distributors (industrial and retail) and representatives 
to distribute its products both in the United States and overseas.  Typically, 
distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those competitive 
with Intel products, and fill orders for many customers.  Most of Intel's 
sales to distributors are made under agreements allowing for price protection 
and/or the right of return on unsold merchandise.  Sales representatives 
generally do not offer directly competitive products, but may carry 
complementary items manufactured by others.  Representatives do not maintain a 
product inventory; instead, their customers place large-quantity orders 
directly with Intel and are referred to distributors for smaller orders.  
Intel sold products to over one thousand customers worldwide in 1995, none of 
which represented more than 10% of total revenues.




PAGE 6
BACKLOG

Intel's sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for 
delivery of standard products.  Intel has some agreements that give a customer 
the right to purchase a specific number of products during a time period.  
Although not generally obligating the customer to purchase any particular 
number of such products, some of these agreements do contain billback clauses.
As a matter of industry practice, billback clauses are difficult to enforce.  
The quantity actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment 
schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes 
in the customer's needs.  In light of industry practice and experience, Intel 
does not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog 
figures.  Intel believes that only a small proportion of its order backlog is 
noncancellable and that the dollar amount associated with the noncancellable 
portion is immaterial.  Therefore, Intel does not believe that backlog as of 
any particular date is necessarily indicative of future results.

COMPETITION

The Company competes in different product lines to various degrees on the 
basis of price, performance, availability and quality.  Many companies compete 
with Intel and are engaged in the same basic fields of activity, including 
research and development.  Both foreign and domestic, these competitors range 
in size from large multinationals to smaller companies competing in 
specialized market segments. Intel is engaged in a rapidly advancing field of 
technology in which its ability to compete depends upon the continuing 
improvement of its products and processes, continuing cost reductions and the 
development of new products to meet changing customer requirements.

Prices decline rapidly in the semiconductor industry as unit volume grows, as 
competition develops, and as production experience is accumulated. In 
microprocessor board-level and system products, Intel competes with board 
manufacturers and microprocessor-based computer manufacturers.  Some of these 
competitors are also Intel customers.

A number of competitors have developed products that are software compatible 
with some of the Company's key products. Many of Intel's competitors are 
licensed to use Intel patents. Furthermore, based on the current case law, 
Intel's competitors can design microprocessors that are compatible with Intel 
microprocessors and avoid Intel patent rights through the use of foundry 
services that have licenses with Intel. Competitors' products may add features 
and increase performance. The Company also faces significant competition from 
companies that offer rival microprocessor architectures. The Company cannot 
predict whether such rival architectures will gain market acceptance or 
provide increased competition to the Company's products. Future distortion of 
price maturity curves could occur as software compatible products enter the 
market in significant volume or alternative architectures gain market 
acceptance.

It continues to be Intel's strategy to introduce ever-higher performance 
microprocessors and work with the software industry to develop compelling 
applications that can take advantage of this higher performance, thus driving 
demand toward the Company's newer products. Intel also is committed to the 
protection of its intellectual property rights against illegal use. There can 
be no assurance, however, that competitors will not introduce new products 
(either software compatible or of rival architectural designs) or reduce 
prices on existing products. Such developments could have an adverse effect on 
Intel's revenues and margins.




PAGE 7
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's competitive position has developed to a large extent because of 
its emphasis on research and development.  This emphasis has enabled Intel to 
deliver products before they have become available from competitors, and thus 
has permitted Intel's customers to commit to the use of these new products in 
the development of their own products.  Intel's research and development 
activities are directed toward developing new products, hardware technologies 
and processes, and improving existing products and lowering their cost. Intel 
is jointly developing semiconductor processes, software optimization and 
microprocessor architecture. New 64-bit processors based on the jointly 
developed architecture are expected to be initially targeted at server, 
workstation and enterprise computing products, probably in the late 1990s. The 
Company also develops "enabling" software technologies, such as open software 
specifications and software tools, to enhance the functionality and acceptance 
of the personal computer platform.  Intel's expenditures for research and 
development were $1,296 million, $1,111 million and $970 million in fiscal 
years 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  As of December 30, 1995, Intel had 
approximately 7,700 employees engaged in research and development.  The 
results of Intel's research and development activities depend upon competitive 
circumstances and Intel's ability to transfer new products to production in a 
timely and cost-effective manner.

Most design and development of VLSI components and other products is performed 
at Intel's facilities in Santa Clara and Folsom, California; Aloha and 
Hillsboro, Oregon; Chandler, Arizona; and Haifa, Israel.


INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING

Intellectual property rights that apply to various Intel products include 
patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and maskwork rights.  Because 
of the rapidly changing technology and a broad distribution of patents in the 
semiconductor industry, Intel's present intention is not to rely primarily on 
intellectual property rights to protect or establish its market position.  
However, Intel has established an active program to protect its investment in 
technology by enforcing all of its intellectual property rights. Intel does 
not intend to broadly license its intellectual property rights unless it can 
obtain adequate consideration. Reference is also made to the heading 
"Competition."

Intel has filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and 
abroad. Intel has entered into patent cross-license agreements with many of 
its major competitors.

Intel protects many of its computer programs by copyrighting them.  Intel has 
registered numerous copyrights with the United States Copyright Office.  The 
ability to protect or to copyright software in some foreign jurisdictions is 
not clear.  However, Intel has a policy of requiring customers to sign a 
software license contract before providing a customer with certain computer 
programs.  Certain VLSI components have computer programs embedded in them, 
and Intel has obtained copyright protection for some of these programs as 
well. Beginning in 1985, Intel has obtained protection for the maskworks for a 
number of its components under the Chip Protection Act of 1984.

Intel has obtained certain trademarks and trade names for its products to 
distinguish genuine Intel products from those of its competitors and is 
currently engaged in a cooperative program with OEMs to identify personal 
computers that incorporate genuine Intel microprocessors with the Intel 
Inside( logo.  Intel maintains certain details about its processes, products 
and strategies as trade secrets.

As is the case with many companies in the semiconductor industry, Intel has, 
from time to time, been notified of claims that it may be infringing certain 
patent rights of others.  These claims have been referred to counsel, and they 
are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation.  If it appears necessary 
or desirable, Intel may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights.  
Intel can give no assurance that licenses will be offered by all claimants, 
that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to Intel or that in 
all cases the dispute will be resolved without litigation.




PAGE 8
COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

To Intel's present knowledge, compliance with federal, state and local 
provisions enacted or adopted for protection of the environment has had no 
material effect upon its operations.  However, reference is made to Item 3. 
Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive officers 
of Intel (ages are as of December 30, 1995):

Craig R. Barrett (age 56) has been Chief Operating Officer since 1993; a 
director of Intel since 1992; and Executive Vice President since 1990.

Andrew S. Grove (age 59) has been a director of Intel since 1974; President 
since 1979; and Chief Executive Officer since 1987.

Gordon E. Moore (age 67) has been a director of Intel since 1968 and Chairman 
of the Board since 1979. 

Leslie L. Vadasz (age 59) has been a director of Intel since 1988; and Senior 
Vice President, Director of Corporate Business Development since 1991.

Frank C. Gill (age 52) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Internet and Communications Group since 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Gill was 
Senior Vice President and General Manager, Intel Products Group from 1991 to 
1996; and Senior Vice President and President of the Systems Group from 1990 
to 1991.

David L. House (age 52) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Enterprise Server Group since 1995. Prior to that, Mr. House was Senior Vice 
President and Director, Corporate Strategy from 1993 to 1995; Senior Vice 
President and General Manager, Architecture Marketing and Applications Group 
from 1992 to 1993; and Senior Vice President and President of Microcomputer 
Components Group from 1990 to 1991.

Paul S. Otellini (age 45) has been Senior Vice President, Director, Sales 
since 1994. Prior to that, Mr. Otellini was  Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Microprocessor Products Group, from 1992 to 1994; Vice President and 
General Manager, Microprocessor Products Group from 1991 to 1992; and Vice 
President, Microcomputer Components Group, General Manager, Micro Products 
Group from 1990 to 1991.

Gerhard H. Parker (age 52) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Technology & Manufacturing Group, since 1992. Prior to that, Dr. Parker was 
Vice President and General Manager, Technology & Manufacturing Group from 1990 
to 1992.

Robert W. Reed (age 49) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Semiconductor Products Group, since 1991. Prior to that, Mr. Reed was Senior 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 1991.

Ronald J. Whittier (age 59) has been Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Content Group since 1995. Prior to that, Mr. Whittier was Senior Vice 
President and General Manager, Intel Architecture Laboratories from 1993 to 
1995; Vice President and General Manager, Software Technology Group from 1991 
to 1992; and Vice President and Director of Marketing from 1990 to 1991.

Albert Y.C. Yu (age 54) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Microprocessor Products Group since 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Yu was Vice 
President and General Manager, Microprocessor Products Group from 1991 to 
1993; and Vice President and General Manager, Micro Products Group from 1990 
to 1991.




PAGE 9
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, CONTINUED

Michael A. Aymar (age 48) has been Vice President and General Manager, Desktop 
Products Group since 1995. Prior to that, Mr. Aymar was Vice President and 
General Manager, Intel486(TM) Microprocessor Division from 1994 to 1995; 
Vice President and General Manager, Mobile Computing Group from 1991 to 1994; 
and Vice President and General Manager, Santa Clara Microcomputer Division 
from 1989 to 1991.

Andy D. Bryant (age 45) has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
since 1994. Prior to that, Mr. Bryant was Vice President, Intel Products Group 
from 1990 to 1994.

F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr. (age 44) has been Vice President, General Counsel and 
Secretary since 1987.

G. Carl Everett, Jr. (age 45) has been Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Desktop Products Group since 1995. Prior to that, Mr. Everett was 
Senior Vice President and General Manager, Microprocessor Products Group from 
1994 to 1995; and Vice President and Director, Worldwide Sales Group from 1990 
to 1994.

Stephen P. Nachtsheim (age 50) has been Vice President and General Manager, 
Mobile/Handheld Products Group since 1995. Prior to that, Mr. Nachtsheim was 
Vice President and General Manager, Mobile and Home Products Group from 1994 
to 1995; and General Manager of European Intel Products Group from 1990 to 
1994.




PAGE 10
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES    

At December 30, 1995, Intel owned the major facilities described below:
<TABLE>
No. of Bldgs.    Location        Total Sq. Ft.    Use
- -------------    --------        -------------    ---
<S>              <C>                <C>           <C>
56               United States (A)  9,744,000     Executive and administrative
                                                  offices, wafer fabrication, 
                                                  components testing and 
                                                  assembly, research and 
                                                  development, computer and 
                                                  service functions, system 
                                                  assembly and warehousing.

6                Ireland              959,000     Wafer fabrication, system 
                                                  and board assembly, and 
                                                  administrative offices.

6                Malaysia (B)         531,000     Components assembly and 
                                                  testing and administrative 
                                                  offices.

4                Israel               379,000     Wafer fabrication, design 
                                                  center, sales office and 
                                                  related support functions.

4                Puerto Rico          292,000     Systems manufacturing, board 
                                                  assembly, warehousing and 
                                                  administration.

3                England              184,000     European sales, marketing, 
                                                  warehousing and related 
                                                  support functions.

3                Japan                167,000     Sales, warehousing and 
                                                  related support functions.

1                Philippines (C)      431,000     Components assembly and 
                                                  testing and administrative 
                                                  offices.

1                Germany               86,000     European marketing, German 
                                                  sales and administrative 
                                                  offices.
</TABLE>

At December 30, 1995, Intel also leased 24 major facilities in the U.S. 
totaling approximately 893,000 square feet and 11 facilities in other 
countries totaling approximately 250,000 square feet.  These leases expire at 
varying dates through 2005, including renewals at the option of Intel.

Intel believes that its existing facilities are suitable and adequate for its 
present purposes, and the productive capacity in such facilities is in general 
being utilized.  Intel has other facilities available that it can equip to 
meet anticipated future demand.  These include 4.7 million square feet of 
building space under various stages of construction in the United States and 
abroad for manufacturing and administrative purposes.

___________________
(A)     Includes an idle, 131,000-square-foot facility formerly utilized for 
        wafer fabrication and administration, which was sold in March 1996.
(B)     The lease on a portion of the land used for these facilities expires 
         in 2032.
(C)     Leases on land expire in 1998.




PAGE 11
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

A. LITIGATION

Consumer Class Action Suits
- ---------------------------
Machtinger vs. Intel, Cook Co. Circuit Court, IL (94-C-7300)
Anthony Uzzo & Co. vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745729)
Liberty Bell Equip. vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745803)
Sloane vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745876)
Klein vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745895)
Scalzo vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745924)
Rep. Electronic Products vs. Intel and Dell,
Wayne Co. Circuit Court, MI (94-435132CK)
Fingold vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746031)
Lees et al vs. Intel, Camden Co. Superior Court, NJ (L 11508 94)
Kurtz, Orman vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746116)
Data Technology Services vs. Intel, U.S.D.C., Dist. of CO (94-N-2886)
Carney vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746128)
- -----------------------------------------------------------

During the period from November 29, 1994 through December 19, 1994, numerous 
civil consumer lawsuits were filed in state courts in various states against 
the Company.  Although the complaints differed, these actions generally 
alleged that Intel breached express and implied warranties, engaged in 
deceptive advertising and otherwise committed consumer fraud by shipping 
Pentium processors which contained a divide problem in the floating point 
unit, and by failing to disclose it.  The suits sought compensatory and 
punitive damages of unspecified amounts. A Stipulation of Settlement covering 
all actions was filed in the Santa Clara Superior Court on March 22, 1995 and 
became final on June 22, 1995. 

Weisberg vs. C. Barrett, W.H. Chen, A. Grove, D.J. Guzy, G. Moore, M. 
Palevsky, A. Rock, J. Shaw, L. Vadasz, D. Yoffie, C. Young and Intel
Southern District, NY (C95-0674)
- --------------------------------

On January 31, 1995, the plaintiff brought this suit in Federal Court in New 
York (Southern District) as both a derivative and stockholder action to 
invalidate the Company's Executive Officer Bonus Plan, alleging that the Plan 
is so vague and misleading as to be ambiguous.  Plaintiff sought (i) 
cancellation of the stockholders' approval of the Plan, (ii) unspecified 
damages to Intel by the Board of Directors, and (iii) to enjoin implementation 
of the Plan and the payment of any bonuses under the Plan. A hearing was held 
on January 12, 1996 to consider and approve a stipulated settlement and 
dismissal of the action.  The Court approved the settlement, and an order of 
dismissal was signed and became effective on January 22, 1996.


Thorn EMI North America, Inc. vs. Intel
and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., DEL (C95-199)
- -----------------------------------------------

On March 29, 1995, Thorn EMI North America Inc. brought suit in Federal Court 
in Delaware against Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) alleging 
infringement of a U.S. patent relating to processes for manufacturing 
semiconductors, certain of which processes are utilized in the manufacture of 
the Company's Pentium(R) and Pentium(R) Pro microprocessors.  The plaintiff is 
seeking injunctive relief and unspecified damages. On September 8, 1995, Intel 
was granted a motion to sever its case from the AMD case.  Trial of the 
plaintiff's claims against Intel is presently set for June 1996.  The Company 
believes this lawsuit to be without merit and will defend the case vigorously. 
Although the ultimate outcome of this lawsuit cannot be determined at this 
time, management, including internal counsel, does not believe that the 
ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on Intel's financial 
position or overall trends in results of operations.




PAGE12
B. ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS

Intel has been named to the California and U.S. Superfund lists for three of 
its sites and has completed, along with two other companies, a Remedial 
Investigation/Feasibility study with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) to evaluate the groundwater in areas adjacent to its former Mountain 
View, California site.  The EPA has issued a Record of Decision with respect 
to a groundwater cleanup plan at that site.  Under the California and U.S. 
Superfund statutes, liability for cleanup of the Mountain View site and 
adjacent area is joint and several.  The Company has reached agreement with 
those same two companies which should significantly limit the Company's 
liabilities under the proposed cleanup plan.  Also, the Company has completed 
extensive studies at its other sites and is engaged in cleanup at several of 
these sites.  In the opinion of management, including internal counsel, the 
potential losses to the Company in excess of amounts already accrued arising 
out of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's 
financial position or overall trends in results of operations, even if joint 
and several liability were to be assessed.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.




PAGE13
PART II


ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
         MATTERS

(a)     Reference is made to the information regarding market, market price 
range and dividend information appearing under "Financial Information by 
Quarter (Unaudited)" on page 31 of the Registrant's Annual Report to 
Stockholders which information is hereby incorporated by reference. 

(b)     As of February 24, 1996, there were 85,273 holders of record of the 
Registrant's Common Stock.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Reference is made to the information regarding selected financial data for the 
fiscal years 1991 through 1995, under the heading "Financial Summary" on page 
27 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.  

In addition, the ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five 
years in the period ended December 30, 1995 are as follows:

                             Fiscal Year
          -----------------------------------------------------
          1991        1992        1993        1994        1995

          12.4x       20.7x       54.4x       39.5x       67.6x

Fixed charges consist of interest expense and the estimated interest component 
of rent expense.




PAGE 14
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading "Management's 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on 
pages 28 through 30 of the Registrant's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders, 
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Subsequent to December 30, 1995, Intel repurchased 4.1 million shares of 
Common Stock under the Company's authorized stock repurchase program at a cost 
of $234 million, including 1.8 million shares at a cost of $108 million upon 
the exercise of put warrants. The Company also sold 3 million put warrants, 
receiving proceeds of $18 million, while 1.5 million previously outstanding 
put warrants expired unexercised. As of March 25, 1996, the Company had the 
potential obligation to repurchase 11.7 million shares of Common Stock at an 
aggregate price of $734 million under outstanding put warrants. The 11.7 
million put warrants outstanding at March 25, 1996 expire on various dates 
between May 1996 and February 1997 and have exercise prices ranging from $56 
to $68 per share, with an average exercise price of $62.  After reserving 
shares to cover these outstanding put warrants, 26.1 million shares remained 
available under the stock repurchase program authorization.

During the third quarter of 1995, a portion of the receivable balance from one 
of the Company's five largest customers was converted into a loan.  The total 
amount receivable from this customer at December 30, 1995 was approximately 
$400 million.  The total amount receivable from this customer at March 25, 
1996 was approximately $356 million. This customer has informed the Company 
that it anticipates obtaining additional outside financing.  No assurances can 
be given that this additional financing will be obtained.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated financial statements of Intel Corporation at December 30, 1995 
and December 31, 1994 and for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 30, 1995 and the Report of Independent Auditors thereon and Intel 
Corporation's unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended 
December 30, 1995 are incorporated by reference from the Registrant's 1995 
Annual Report to Stockholders, on pages 14 through 31.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.




PAGE 15
PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Reference is made to the information regarding Directors and Executive 
Officers appearing under the heading "Election of Directors" on pages 2 
through 4 of the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated April 4, 1996, which 
information is hereby incorporated by reference, and to the information under 
the heading "Executive Officers" in Part I hereof.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Reference is made to the information appearing under the headings "Directors' 
Compensation," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation," 
and "Executive Compensation," on pages 5 and 6, 10 and 12, respectively, of the
Registrant's Proxy Statement dated April 4, 1996, which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Reference is made to information appearing in the Registrant's Proxy Statement 
dated April 4, 1996, under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management," on pages 15 and 16, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.




PAGE 16
PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  Financial Statements

         The financial statements listed in the accompanying index to 
         financial statements and financial statement schedules are filed or 
         incorporated by reference as part of this annual report.

     2.  Financial Statement Schedule

         The financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index to 
         financial statements and financial statement schedules is filed as 
         part of this annual report.

     3.  Exhibits

         The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are filed 
         or incorporated by reference as part of this annual report.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K

         None.




PAGE 17
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(Item 14 (a))                                               Reference Page
                                                            --------------
                                                                        1995
                                                                      Annual
                                                         Form      Report to
                                                         10-K   Stockholders
                                                         ----   ------------
<TABLE>
<S>                                                      <C>    <C>
Consolidated Balance Sheets-
  December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
Consolidated Statements of Income for
  the years ended December 30, 1995,
  December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  for the years ended December 30, 1995,
  December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' 
  Equity for the years ended December 30, 1995, 
  December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements- 
  December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994 and 
  December 25, 1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .18-26
Report of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .27
Supplementary Information (unaudited)
  Financial Information by Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31
Schedule for years ended December 30, 1995, 
  December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993:
II- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts . . . . . . . . . . .18
</TABLE>
Schedules other than the one listed above are omitted for the reason that they 
are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown 
in the financial statements or notes thereto.

The consolidated financial statements listed in the above index, which are 
included in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders, are hereby 
incorporated by reference.  With the exception of the pages listed in the 
above index and the portions of such report referred to in Items 5, 6, 7 and 8 
of this Form 10-K, the 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed 
filed as part of this report.

Page references to the 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders relate to the bound, 
printed version of the report.




PAGE 18
INTEL CORPORATION
- -----------------

SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

December 25, 1993, December 31, 1994 and December 30,1995
(In Millions)



                                            Additions
                              Balance at   Charged to                  Balance
                               Beginning    Costs and                   at End
                                 of Year     Expenses  Deductions (A)  of Year
                              ----------   ----------  -------------   -------
<TABLE>
<S>                           <C>          <C>         <C>             <C>
1993
Allowance for Doubtful Receivables   $26          $ 4           $ 8        $22
                                     ---          ---           ---        ---
1994
Allowance for Doubtful Receivables   $22          $10           $--        $32
                                     ---          ---           ---        ---
1995
Allowance for Doubtful Receivables   $32          $28           $ 3        $57

(A)  Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.
</TABLE>



PAGE 19
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
(Item 14(a))
     Description

3.1  Intel Corporation Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference 
     to Exhibit 3.1 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 
     1993 as filed on August 10, 1993).

3.2  Intel Corporation Bylaws as amended, (incorporated by reference to 
     Exhibit 3.2 of Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 10-Q for the 
     quarter ended September 25, 1993 as filed on November 9, 1993).

4.1  Agreement to Provide Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders 
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's Form 10-K as 
     filed on March 28, 1986).

4.2  Warrant Agreement dated as of March 1, 1993, as amended between the 
     Registrant and Harris Trust and Savings Bank (as successor Warrant Agent) 
     related to the issuance of 1998 Step-Up Warrants to purchase Common Stock 
     of Intel Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of 
     Registrant's Form 10-K as filed on March 25, 1993), together with the 
     First Amendment to Warrant Agreement dated as of October 18, 1993 and the 
     Second Amendment to Warrant Agreement dated as of January 17, 1994 
     (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant's Form 10-K 
     as filed on March 25, 1994) and the Third Amendment to Warrant Agreement 
     dated as of May 1, 1995.

10.1 Intel Corporation 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated, 
     effective May 4, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of 
     Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 1994 as filed on 
     May 16, 1994), together with the First Amendment to Intel Corporation 
     1984 Stock Option Plan, dated July 1995 (incorporated by reference to 
     Exhibit 10.1 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 1995 
     as filed on August 10, 1995).

10.2 Intel Corporation 1988 Executive Long-Term Stock Option Plan as amended 
     and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Registrant's 
     Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 1994 as filed on May 16, 1994).

10.3 Intel Corporation Executive Officer Bonus Plan as amended and restated 
     effective January 1, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of 
     Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 5, 1995 as filed on 
     May 15, 1995).

10.4 Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement Plan Plus, as amended and 
     restated effective November 1, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 
     4.1 of Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-8 as filed October 
     18, 1995).

11.  Computation of Per Share Earnings.

12.  Statement Setting Forth the Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed 
     Charges.

13.  Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended 
     December 30, 1995 expressly incorporated by reference herein.

21.  Intel Subsidiaries.

23.  Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

27.  Financial Data Schedule.




PAGE 20
SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be signed on 
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION
- -----------------
Registrant


INTEL CORPORATION
Registrant

By /s/ F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.
- ----------------------------
  F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.
  Vice President and Secretary
  March 27, 1996


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Craig R. Barrett
- --------------------                            --------------------
Craig R. Barrett                                Max Palevsky
Director                                        Director
March 27, 1996                                  March 27, 1996

/s/ Andy D. Bryant                              /s/ Arthur Rock
- ------------------                              ---------------
Andy D. Bryant                                  Arthur Rock
Vice President, Principal                       Director
Accounting and Chief Financial Officer          March 27, 1996
March 27, 1996
                                                /s/ Jane E. Shaw
/s/ Winston H. Chen                             ----------------
- -------------------                             Jane E. Shaw
Winston H. Chen                                 Director
Director                                        March 27, 1996
March 27, 1996
                                                /s/ Leslie L. Vadasz
/s/ Andrew S. Grove                             --------------------
- -------------------                             Leslie L. Vadasz
Andrew S. Grove                                 Director
Principal Executive Officer                     March 27, 1996
President and Director
March 27, 1996                                  /s/ David B. Yoffie
                                                -------------------
/s/ D. James Guzy                               David B. Yoffie
- -----------------                               Director
D. James Guzy                                   March 27, 1996
Director
March 27, 1996                                  /s/ Charles E. Young
                                                --------------------
/s/ Gordon E. Moore                             Charles E. Young
- -------------------                             Director
Gordon E. Moore                                 March 27, 1996
Chairman of the Board
March 27, 1996

??



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 11.1
       
                                             INTEL CORPORATION
                                     COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
                                 (In millions, except per share amounts)
<TABLE>
                                                                   Year Ended
                                                          -----------------------------
                                                          Dec. 25,   Dec. 31,   Dec. 30,
                                                            1993       1994       1995
                                                          -------    -------    -------
<S>                                                       <C>        <C>        <C>                              
PRIMARY SHARES CALCULATION

Reconciliation of weighted average number
of shares outstanding to amount used in
primary earnings per share computation:

Weighted average number of shares outstanding                 836        830        825

 Add-shares issuable from assumed exercise of options
  and warrants                                                 46         44         59
                                                           ------     ------     ------

 Weighted average number of shares outstanding as
  adjusted                                                    882        874        884
                                                           ======     ======     ======

FULLY DILUTED SHARES CALCULATION

Reconciliation of weighted average number
of shares outstanding to amount used in
fully diluted earnings per share computation:

  Weighted average number of shares outstanding               836        830        825

  Add-shares issuable from assumed exercise of options
  and warrants                                                 46         44         65
                                                           ------     ------     ------

  Weighted average number of shares outstanding as 
   adjusted                                                   882        874        890
                                                           ======     ======     ======

NET INCOME                                                 $2,295     $2,288     $3,566
                                                           ======     ======     ======

PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE                                 $ 2.60     $ 2.62     $ 4.03
                                                           ======     ======     ======

FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE(1)                        $ 2.60     $ 2.62     $ 4.01
                                                           ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>        
(1)     Earnings per common and common equivalent share presented on the face
of the income statement represent primary earnings per share.  Dual
presentation of primary and fully diluted earnings per share has not been
made on the face of the income statement because the differences are 
insignificant. This exhibit is presented because common stock equivalents 
represent more than 3% of weighted average common shares outstanding.




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 12.1


                               INTEL CORPORATION


                    STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION
          OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES FOR INTEL CORPORATION

                            (In millions, except ratios)

<TABLE>
                                                        Years Ended
                           ----------------------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
                           Dec. 28,   Dec. 26,   Dec. 25,   Dec. 31,   Dec. 30,
                             1991       1992       1993       1994       1995
                           --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
Income before taxes          $1,195     $1,569     $3,530     $3,603     $5,638

Add - Fixed charges net of
  capitalized interest           98         68         58         66         38
                             ------     ------     ------     ------     ------

Income before taxes and 
  fixed charges (net of 
  capitalized interest)      $1,293     $1,637     $3,588     $3,669     $5,676
                             ======     ======     ======     ======     ======

Fixed charges:

Interest*                    $   82     $   54     $   50     $   57     $   29

Capitalized interest              6         11          8         27         46

Estimated interest component
  of rental expense              16         14          8          9          9
                             ------     ------     ------     ------     ------

Total                        $  104     $   79     $   66     $   93     $   84
                             ======     ======     ======     ======     ======


Ratio of earnings before taxes
  and fixed charges, to fixed
  charges                     12.4x      20.7x      54.4x      39.5x      67.6x

</TABLE>
*  Interest expense includes the amortization of underwriting fees for the
   relevant periods outstanding.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

Exhibit 13

Consolidated Statements Of Income
Three years ended December 30, 1995
(In millions--except per share amounts)
<TABLE>
<S>                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
                                              1995          1994          1993
                                           -------       -------       -------
Net revenues                               $16,202       $11,521       $ 8,782
                                           -------       -------       -------
Cost of sales                                7,811         5,576         3,252
Research and development                     1,296         1,111           970
Marketing, general and 
  administrative                             1,843         1,447         1,168
                                           -------       -------       -------
Operating costs and expenses                10,950         8,134         5,390
                                           -------       -------       -------
Operating income                             5,252         3,387         3,392
Interest expense                               (29)          (57)          (50)
Interest income and other, net                 415           273           188
                                           -------       -------       -------
Income before taxes                          5,638         3,603         3,530
Provision for taxes                          2,072         1,315         1,235
                                           -------       -------       -------
Net income                                 $ 3,566       $ 2,288       $ 2,295
                                           =======       =======       =======
Earnings per common and 
  common equivalent share                  $  4.03       $  2.62       $  2.60
                                           =======       =======       =======
Weighted average common and 
  common equivalent shares 
  outstanding                                  884           874           882
                                           =======       =======       =======
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.


Consolidated Balance Sheets
December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994 
(In millions--except per share amounts)
<TABLE>
<S>                                                      <C>           <C> 
                                                            1995          1994
                                                         -------       -------
Assets
Current assets:
     Cash and cash equivalents                           $ 1,463       $ 1,180
     Short-term investments                                  995         1,230
     Accounts receivable, net of allowance for 
       doubtful accounts of $57 ($32 in 1994)              3,116         1,978
     Inventories                                           2,004         1,169
     Deferred tax assets                                     408           552
     Other current assets                                    111            58
                                                         -------       -------
Total current assets                                       8,097         6,167
                                                         -------       -------
Property, plant and equipment:
     Land and buildings                                    3,145         2,292
     Machinery and equipment                               7,099         5,374
     Construction in progress                              1,548           850
                                                         -------       -------
                                                          11,792         8,516
     Less accumulated depreciation                         4,321         3,149
                                                         -------       -------
Property, plant and equipment, net                         7,471         5,367
                                                         -------       -------
Long-term investments                                      1,653         2,127
Other assets                                                 283           155
                                                         -------       -------
     Total assets                                        $17,504       $13,816
                                                         =======       =======
Liabilities and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
     Short-term debt                                     $   346       $   517
     Accounts payable                                        864           575
     Deferred income on shipments to distributors            304           269
     Accrued compensation and benefits                       758           588
     Accrued advertising                                     218           108
     Other accrued liabilities                               328           538
     Income taxes payable                                    801           429
                                                         -------       -------
Total current liabilities                                  3,619         3,024
                                                         -------       -------
Long-term debt                                               400           392
Deferred tax liabilities                                     620           389
Put warrants                                                 725           744
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
     Preferred Stock, $.001 par value, 50 shares 
       authorized; none issued                                --            --
     Common Stock, $.001 par value, 1,400 shares 
       authorized; 821 issued and outstanding in 
       1995 (827 in 1994) and capital in excess 
       of par value                                        2,583         2,306
     Retained earnings                                     9,557         6,961
                                                         -------       -------
Total stockholders' equity                                12,140         9,267
                                                         -------       -------
     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity          $17,504       $13,816
                                                         =======       =======
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.

<TABLE>
Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
Three years ended December 30, 1995
(In millions)                                 1995          1994          1993
                                           -------       -------       -------
<S>                                        <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash and cash equivalents, 
  beginning of year                        $ 1,180       $ 1,659       $ 1,843
                                           =======       =======       =======
Cash flows provided by (used for) 
  operating activities:
Net income                                   3,566         2,288         2,295
Adjustments to reconcile net income to 
  net cash provided by (used for) 
  operating activities:
     Depreciation                            1,371         1,028           717
     Net loss on retirements of property, 
       plant and equipment                      75            42            36
     Amortization of debt discount               8            19            17
     Change in deferred tax assets and 
       liabilities                             346          (150)           12
Changes in assets and liabilities:
     (Increase) in accounts receivable      (1,138)         (530)         (379)
     (Increase) in inventories                (835)         (331)         (303)
     (Increase) in other assets               (241)          (13)          (68)
     Increase in accounts payable              289           148           146
     Tax benefit from employee stock plans     116            61            68
     Increase in income taxes payable          372            38            32
     Increase in accrued compensation and 
       benefits                                170            44           109
     (Decrease) increase in other 
       liabilities                             (73)          337           119
                                           -------       -------       -------
     Total adjustments                         460           693           506
                                           -------       -------       -------
Net cash provided by operating activities    4,026         2,981         2,801
                                           =======       =======       =======
Cash flows provided by (used for) 
  investing activities:
     Additions to property, plant and 
       equipment                            (3,550)       (2,441)       (1,933)
     Purchases of long-term, 
       available-for-sale investments         (129)         (975)       (1,165)
     Sales of long-term, 
       available-for-sale investments          114            10             5
     Maturities and other changes in 
       available-for-sale investments, net     878           503          (244)
                                           -------       -------       -------
Net cash (used for) investing activities    (2,687)       (2,903)       (3,337)
                                           =======       =======       =======
Cash flows provided by (used for) 
  financing activities:
     (Decrease) increase in short-term 
       debt, net                              (179)          (63)          197
     Additions to long-term debt                --           128           148
     Retirement of long-term debt               (4)          (98)           --
     Proceeds from sales of shares through 
       employee stock plans and other          192           150           133
     Proceeds from sale of Step-Up 
       Warrants, net                            --            --           287
     Proceeds from sales of put warrants, 
       net of repurchases                       85            76            62
     Repurchase and retirement of 
       Common Stock                         (1,034)         (658)         (391)
     Payment of dividends to stockholders     (116)          (92)          (84)
                                           -------       -------       -------
Net cash (used for) provided by financing 
  activities                                (1,056)         (557)          352
                                           =======       =======       =======
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash 
  equivalents                                  283          (479)         (184)
                                           =======       =======       =======
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year     $ 1,463       $ 1,180       $ 1,659
                                           =======       =======       =======
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow 
  information:
Cash paid during the year for:
     Interest                              $   182       $    76       $    39
     Income taxes                          $ 1,209       $ 1,366       $ 1,123

Cash paid for interest in 1995 includes approximately $108 million of 
accumulated interest on Zero Coupon Notes that matured in 1995. 
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.


Consolidated Statements Of Stockholders' Equity
<TABLE>
                                        Common Stock 
                                   and capital in excess
                                        of par value
                                    -------------------
Three years ended December 30, 1995   Number              Retained
(In millions)                       of shares    Amount   earnings     Total
                                    ---------  ---------  ---------  ---------
<S>                                 <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Balance at December 26, 1992             837    $ 1,776    $ 3,669    $ 5,445

Proceeds from sales of shares 
  through employee stock plans, 
  tax benefit of $68 and other            14        201         --        201
Proceeds from sales of put warrants       --         62         --         62
Reclassification of put warrant 
  obligation, net                         --        (37)      (278)      (315)
Proceeds from sale of Step-Up Warrants    --        287         --        287
Repurchase and retirement of Common 
  Stock                                  (14)       (95)      (296)      (391)
Cash dividends declared 
  ($.10 per share)                        --         --        (84)       (84)
Net income                                --         --      2,295      2,295
                                     -------    -------    -------    -------
Balance at December 25, 1993             837      2,194      5,306      7,500

Proceeds from sales of shares through 
  employee stock plans, tax benefit of 
  $61 and other                           12        215         --        215
Proceeds from sales of put warrants       --         76         --         76
Reclassification of put warrant 
  obligation, net                         --        (15)      (106)      (121)
Repurchase and retirement of 
  Common Stock                           (22)      (164)      (429)      (593)
Redemption of Common Stock 
  Purchase Rights                         --         --         (2)        (2)
Cash dividends declared 
  ($.115 per share)                       --         --        (96)       (96)
Net income                                --         --      2,288      2,288
                                     -------    -------    -------    -------
Balance at December 31, 1994             827      2,306      6,961      9,267

Proceeds from sales of shares 
  through employee stock plans, 
  tax benefit of $116 and other           13        310         --        310
Proceeds from sales of put warrants       --         85         --         85
Reclassification of put warrant 
  obligation, net                         --         61        (42)        19
Repurchase and retirement of 
  Common Stock                           (19)      (179)      (855)    (1,034)
Cash dividends declared 
  ($.15 per share)                        --         --       (124)      (124)
Unrealized gain on 
  available-for-sale investments, net     --         --         51         51
Net income                                --         --      3,566      3,566
                                     -------    -------    -------    -------
Balance at December 30, 1995             821    $ 2,583    $ 9,557    $12,140
                                     =======    =======    =======    =======
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.


Notes To Consolidated Financial Statements

Accounting policies
Fiscal year. Intel Corporation ("Intel" or "the Company") has a fiscal year 
that ends the last Saturday in December. Fiscal years 1995 and 1993, each 
52-week years, ended on December 30 and 25, respectively. Fiscal 1994 was a 
53-week year and ended on December 31, 1994. The next 53-week year will end on 
December 30, 2000.
Basis of presentation. The consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of Intel and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany 
accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Accounts denominated in foreign
currencies have been remeasured into the functional currency in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 52, "Foreign Currency 
Translation," using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying 
notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Investments. Highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk 
and with original maturities of three months or less are classified as cash 
and cash equivalents. Investments with maturities greater than three months 
and less than one year are classified as short-term investments. Investments 
with maturities greater than one year are classified as long-term investments.
The Company accounts for investments in accordance with SFAS No. 115, 
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," effective 
as of the beginning of fiscal 1994. The Company's policy is to protect the 
value of its investment portfolio and to minimize principal risk by earning 
returns based on current interest rates. All of the Company's marketable 
investments are classified as available-for-sale as of the balance sheet date 
and are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, 
recorded in Stockholders' equity. The cost of securities sold is based on the 
specific identification method. Realized gains or losses and declines in 
value, if any, judged to be other than temporary on available-for-sale 
securities are reported in other income or expense. Investments in non-
marketable instruments are recorded at the lower of cost or market and included
in other assets.
Fair values of financial instruments. Fair values of cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments and short-term debt approximate cost due to the short 
period of time to maturity. Fair values of long-term investments, long-term 
debt, non-marketable instruments, swaps, currency forward contracts, currency 
options and options hedging non-marketable instruments are based on quoted 
market prices or pricing models using current market rates.
Derivative financial instruments. The Company utilizes derivative financial 
instruments to reduce financial market risks. These instruments are used to 
hedge foreign currency, equity and interest rate market exposures of underlying
assets, liabilities and other obligations. The Company does not use derivative 
financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The Company's 
accounting policies for these instruments are based on the Company's 
designation of such instruments as hedging transactions. The criteria the 
Company uses for designating an instrument as a hedge include its effectiveness
in risk reduction and one-to-one matching of derivative instruments to 
underlying transactions. Gains and losses on currency forward contracts, and 
options that are designated and effective as hedges of anticipated 
transactions, for which a firm commitment has been attained, are deferred and
recognized in income in the same period that the underlying transactions are 
settled. Gains and losses on currency forward contracts, options and swaps that
are designated and effective as hedges of existing transactions are recognized 
in income in the same period as losses and gains on the underlying transactions
are recognized and generally offset. Gains and losses on options hedging 
investments in non-marketable instruments are deferred and recognized in income
in the same period as the hedges mature or when the underlying transaction is 
sold, whichever comes first. Income or expense on swaps is accrued as an 
adjustment to the yield of the related investments or debt they hedge.
Inventories. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is 
computed on a currently adjusted standard basis (which approximates actual cost
on a current average or first-in, first-out basis). Inventories at fiscal 
year-ends were as follows:
<TABLE>
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>
(In millions)                                               1995          1994
                                                         -------       -------
Materials and purchased parts                            $   674       $   345
Work in process                                              707           528
Finished goods                                               623           296
                                                         -------       -------
Total                                                    $ 2,004       $ 1,169
                                                         =======       =======
</TABLE>
Property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment are stated at 
cost. Depreciation is computed for financial reporting purposes principally by 
use of the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: 
machinery and equipment, 2-4 years; land and buildings, 4-45 years. 
The Company adopted SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived 
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," effective as of the 
beginning of fiscal 1995. This adoption had no material effect on the Company's
financial statements. Deferred income on shipments to distributors. Certain of 
the Company's sales are made to distributors under agreements allowing price 
protection and/or right of return on merchandise unsold by the distributors. 
Because of frequent sales price reductions and rapid technological obsolescence
in the industry, Intel defers recognition of such sales until the merchandise
is sold by the distributors.
Advertising. Cooperative advertising obligations are accrued and the costs 
expensed at the same time the related revenue is recognized. All other 
advertising costs are expensed as incurred. The Company does not incur any 
direct-response advertising costs. Advertising expense was $654 million, $459 
million and $325 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
Interest. Interest as well as gains and losses related to contractual 
agreements to hedge certain investment positions and debt (see "Derivative 
financial instruments") are recorded as net interest income or expense on a 
monthly basis. Interest expense capitalized as a component of construction 
costs was $46 million, $27 million and $8 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993, 
respectively.
Earnings per common and common equivalent share. Earnings per common and common
equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of outstanding 
common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding. Fully diluted 
earnings per share have not been presented as part of the consolidated 
statements of income because the differences are insignificant.
Stock distribution. On June 16, 1995, the Company effected a stock distribution
in the form of a two-for-one stock split to stockholders of record as of May 
19, 1995. Share, per share, Common Stock, capital in excess of par value, stock
option and warrant amounts herein have been restated to reflect the effect of 
this split.
Common Stock
1998 Step-Up Warrants. In 1993, the Company issued 40 million 1998 Step-Up 
Warrants to purchase 40 million shares of Common Stock. This transaction 
resulted in an increase of $287 million in Common Stock and capital in excess 
of par value, representing net proceeds from the offering. The Warrants became 
exercisable in May 1993 at an effective price of $35.75 per share of Common 
Stock, subject to annual increases to a maximum price of $41.75 per share 
effective in March 1997. As of December 30, 1995, approximately 40 million 
Warrants were exercisable at a price of $38.75 and expire on March 14, 1998 
if not previously exercised. For 1995, the Warrants had a dilutive effect on 
earnings per share and represented approximately 
11 million common equivalent shares. The Warrants did not have a dilutive 
effect on earnings per share in 1994 or 1993.
Stock repurchase program. In 1990, the Board of Directors authorized the 
repurchase of up to 80 million shares of Intel's Common Stock in open market 
or negotiated transactions. The Board increased this authorization to a maximum
of 110 million shares in July 1994. As of December 30, 1995, the Company had 
repurchased and retired approximately 68 million shares for the program to date
at a cost of $2.19 billion. As of December 30, 1995, after reserving shares to 
cover outstanding put warrants, 29.9 million shares remained available under 
the repurchase authorization.
Put warrants
In a series of private placements from 1991 through 1995, the Company sold put 
warrants that entitle the holder of each warrant to sell one share of Common 
Stock to the Company at a specified price. Activity during the past three years 
is summarized as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                        Put warrants
                                                        outstanding
                               Cumulative        ---------------------------
                                  premium        Number of        Potential
(In millions)                    received         warrants        obligation
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>               <C>             <C>
December 26, 1992                    $ 56             28.0             $373
Sales                                  62             21.6              561
Expirations                            --            (20.0)            (246)
                                   ------           ------           ------
December 25, 1993                     118             29.6              688
Sales                                  76             25.0              744
Exercises                              --             (2.0)             (65)
Expirations                            --            (27.6)            (623)
                                   ------           ------           ------
December 31, 1994                     194             25.0              744
Sales                                  85             17.5              925
Repurchases                            --             (5.5)            (201)
Expirations                            --            (25.0)            (743)
                                   ------           ------           ------
December 30, 1995                    $279             12.0             $725
                                   ======           ======           ======
</TABLE>
The amount related to Intel's potential repurchase obligation has been 
reclassified from stockholders' equity to put warrants. The 12 million put 
warrants outstanding at December 30, 1995 expire on various dates between 
February 1996 and November 1996 and have exercise prices ranging from $38 to 
$68 per share, with an average exercise price of $60 per share. There is no 
significant dilutive effect on earnings per share for the periods presented.
Borrowings
Short-term debt. Short-term debt and weighted average interest rates at 
fiscal year-ends were as follows:
<TABLE>
                                 1995                         1994 
                        -----------------------       -----------------------
                                       Weighted                      Weighted
                                        average                       average
(In millions)           Balance   interest rate       Balance   interest rate
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                      <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Borrowed under  
  lines of credit        $   57            3.2%        $   68            3.2%
Reverse repurchase 
  agreements payable
  in non-U.S. currencies    124            9.2%            99            8.0%
Notes payable                 2            4.7%             5            4.7%
Short-term portion  
  of long-term debt          --              --           179           11.8%
Drafts payable              163             N/A           166             N/A
                         ------                        ------
Total                    $  346                        $  517
                         ======                        ======
</TABLE>
At December 30, 1995, the Company had established foreign and domestic lines of
credit of approximately $1.16 billion. The Company generally renegotiates these
lines annually. Compensating balance requirements are not material.
The Company also borrows under commercial paper programs. Maximum borrowings 
reached $700 million during both 1995 and 1994. This debt is rated A1+ by 
Standard and Poor's and P1 by Moody's. Proceeds are used to fund short-term 
working capital needs.

Long-term debt. Long-term debt at fiscal year-ends was as follows: 
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                               1995          1994
                                                         -------       -------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>
Payable in U.S. dollars:
AFICA Bonds due 2013 at 4%                               $   110       $   110
Zero Coupon Notes due 1995 at 11.8%, 
  net of unamortized discount of $8 in 1994                   --           179
Other U.S. dollar debt                                         4             4
Payable in other currencies:
     Irish punt due 2008-2024 at 6%-12%                      240           228
     Greek drachma due 2001                                   46            46
     Other foreign currency debt                              --             4
(Less short-term portion)                                     --          (179)
                                                         -------       -------
Total                                                    $   400       $   392
                                                         =======       =======
</TABLE>
The Company has guaranteed repayment of principal and interest on the AFICA 
Bonds issued by the Puerto Rico Industrial, Medical and Environmental Pollution
Control Facilities Financing Authority (AFICA). The bonds are adjustable and 
redeemable at the option of either the Company or the bondholder every five 
years through 2013 and are next adjustable and redeemable in 1998. The Zero 
Coupon Notes matured during 1995. The Irish punt borrowings were made in 
connection with the financing of a factory in Ireland, and Intel has invested 
the proceeds in Irish punt denominated instruments of similar maturity to hedge
foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The Greek drachma borrowings were
made under a tax incentive program in Ireland, and the proceeds and cash flows
have been swapped to U.S. dollars.
In 1994, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission (SEC) that became effective in 1995. When combined with
previous shelf registration statements, this filing gave Intel the authority to 
issue up to $3.3 billion in the aggregate of Common Stock, Preferred Stock, 
depositary shares, debt securities and warrants to purchase the Company's or 
other issuers' Common Stock, Preferred Stock and debt securities, and, subject 
to certain limits, stock index warrants and foreign currency exchange units. 
In 1993, Intel completed an offering of Step-Up Warrants (see "1998 Step-Up 
Warrants"). The Company may issue up to $1.4 billion in additional securities 
under effective registration statements. 
As of December 30, 1995, aggregate debt maturities were as follows: 1996-none; 
1997-none; 1998-$110 million; 1999-none; 2000-none; and thereafter-$290 million.

Investments
The stated return on a majority of the Company's marketable investments in 
long-term fixed rate debt and equity securities are swapped to U.S. dollar 
LIBOR-based returns. The currency risks of investments denominated in foreign 
currencies are hedged with foreign currency borrowings, currency forward 
contracts or currency interest rate swaps (see "Derivative 
financial instruments" under "Accounting policies").
Investments with maturities of greater than six months consist primarily of A 
and A2 or better rated financial instruments and counterparties. Investments 
with maturities of up to six months consist primarily of A1/P1 or better rated 
financial instruments and counterparties. Foreign government regulations 
imposed upon investment alternatives of foreign subsidiaries, or the absence 
of A and A2 rated counterparties in certain countries, result in some minor 
exceptions. Intel's practice is to obtain and secure available collateral from
counterparties against obligations whenever Intel deems appropriate. At 
December 30, 1995, investments were placed with approximately 100 different 
counterparties. 
Investments at December 30, 1995 were as follows:

<TABLE>
                                            Gross        Gross    Estimated
                                       unrealized   unrealized         fair
(In millions)                   Cost        gains       losses        value
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
<S>                          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Commercial paper             $   576      $    --      $    --      $   576
Repurchase agreements            474           --           --          474
Securities of foreign 
  governments                    456            1           (1)         456
Corporate bonds                  375            5           --          380
Bank time deposits               360           --           --          360
Loan participations              278           --           --          278
Floating rate notes              224           --           --          224
Fixed rate notes                 159            1           (1)         159
Collateralized mortgage 
  obligations                    129           --           (1)         128
Other debt securities            119           --           (1)         118
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
    Total debt securities      3,150            7           (4)       3,153
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Hedged equity                    431           45           --          476
Preferred stock and 
  other equity                   309           91          (11)         389
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
    Total equity securities      740          136          (11)         865
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Swaps hedging investments in 
  debt securities                 --            2           (9)          (7)
Swaps hedging investments in 
  equity securities               --            5          (47)         (42)
Currency forward 
  contracts hedging investments 
  in debt securities              --            3           --            3
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Total available-for-sale 
   securities                  3,890          153          (71)       3,972
Less amounts classified 
  as cash equivalents         (1,324)          --           --       (1,324)
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Total investments            $ 2,566      $   153      $   (71)     $ 2,648
                             =======      =======      =======      =======

Investments at December 31, 1994 were as follows:

                                            Gross        Gross    Estimated
                                       unrealized   unrealized         fair
(In millions)                   Cost        gains       losses        value
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Commercial paper             $   544      $    --      $    --      $   544
Repurchase agreements            194           --           --          194
Securities of 
  foreign governments            518            2           (7)         513
Corporate bonds                  440           12          (14)         438
Bank time deposits               406           --           --          406
Loan participations              266            6           (2)         270
Fixed rate notes                 167            1           (2)         166
Collateralized mortgage 
  obligations                    170           --           (4)         166
Floating rate notes              488            1           (1)         488
Other debt securities            293           --           (5)         288
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
     Total debt securities     3,486           22          (35)       3,473
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Hedged equity                    431           --          (58)         373
Preferred stock and 
  other equity                   368           20          (16)         372
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
     Total equity securities     799           20          (74)         745
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Swaps hedging investments 
  in debt securities              --           22          (14)           8
Swaps hedging investments 
  in equity securities            --           60           --           60
Currency forward contracts 
  hedging investments in 
  debt securities                 --            1           --            1
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Total available-for-sale 
  securities                   4,285          125         (123)       4,287
Less amounts classified 
  as cash equivalents           (930)          --           --         (930)
                             -------      -------      -------      -------
Total investments            $ 3,355      $   125      $  (123)     $ 3,357
                             =======      =======      =======      =======
</TABLE>
Note: Certain 1994 amounts have been restated to conform to the 1995 
presentation. 

During the year ended December 30, 1995, debt and marketable securities with a 
fair value at the date of sale of $114 million were sold. The gross realized 
gains on such sales totaled $60 million. There were no material proceeds or 
gross realized gains or losses from sales of securities during 1994. 
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investments in debt securities 
at December 30, 1995, by contractual maturity, were as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                                     Estimated
                                                                          fair
(In millions)                                               Cost         value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>
Due in 1 year or less                                    $ 2,172       $ 2,172
Due in 1-2 years                                             486           489
Due in 2-5 years                                             214           214
Due after 5 years                                            278           278
                                                         -------       -------
Total investments in debt securities                     $ 3,150       $ 3,153
                                                         =======       =======
</TABLE>
Derivative financial instruments
Outstanding notional amounts for derivative financial instruments at fiscal 
year-ends were as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                               1995          1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>
Swaps hedging investments in debt securities             $   824       $ 1,080
Swaps hedging investments in equity securities           $   567       $   567
Swaps hedging debt                                       $   156       $   156
Currency forward contracts                               $ 1,310       $   784
Currency options                                         $    28       $    10
Options hedging investments in non-marketable  
  instruments                                            $    82       $    --
</TABLE>
While the contract or notional amounts provide one measure of the volume of 
these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company's exposure 
to credit risk. The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from 
the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) 
are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' 
obligations exceed the obligations of the Company. The Company controls credit 
risk through credit approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. Credit rating 
criteria for off-balance-sheet transactions are similar to those for 
investments.
Swap agreements. The Company utilizes swap agreements to exchange the foreign 
currency, equity, and interest rate returns of its investment and debt 
portfolios for a floating U.S. dollar interest rate based return. The floating 
rates on swaps are based primarily on U.S. dollar LIBOR and reset on a monthly,
quarterly or semiannual basis. 
Weighted average pay and receive rates, average maturities and range of 
maturities on swaps at December 30, 1995 were 
as follows:

<TABLE>
                                            Weighted
                                Weighted     average     Weighted
                                 average     receive      average      Range of
                                pay rate        rate     maturity    maturities
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>         <C>      <C>           <C>
Swaps hedging investments 
  in U.S. dollar debt securities    6.5%        6.2%    1.1 years     0-3 years
Swaps hedging investments 
  in foreign currency 
  debt securities                  10.4%        9.1%    1.1 years     0-3 years
Swaps hedging investments 
  in equity securities               N/A        5.4%    1.2 years     0-2 years
Swaps hedging debt                  5.9%        5.2%    3.6 years     3-6 years
</TABLE>
Note: Pay and receive rates are based on the reset rates that were in effect at
December 30, 1995.

Pay rates on swaps hedging investments in debt securities generally match the 
yields on the underlying investments they hedge. Payments on swaps hedging 
investments in equity securities generally match the equity returns on the 
underlying investments they hedge. Receive rates on swaps hedging debt 
generally match the expense on the underlying debt they hedge. Maturity dates 
of swaps generally match those of the underlying investment or the debt they 
hedge. There is approximately a one-to-one matching of investments and debt to
swaps. Swap agreements generally remain in effect until expiration. Income or 
expense on swaps is accrued as an adjustment to the yield of the related 
investments or debt they hedge.
Other foreign currency instruments. Intel transacts business in various foreign
currencies, primarily Japanese yen and certain European currencies. The 
maturities on most of these foreign currency instruments are less than 12 
months. Deferred gains or losses attributable to foreign currency instruments 
are not material.
Fair values of financial instruments 
The estimated fair values of financial instruments outstanding at fiscal 
year-ends were as follows:

<TABLE>
                                    1995                      1994
                            ---------------------     ---------------------
                                        Estimated                 Estimated
                            Carrying         fair     Carrying         fair
(In millions)                 amount        value       amount        value
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Cash and cash equivalents    $ 1,463      $ 1,463      $ 1,180      $ 1,180
Short-term investments       $   995      $   995      $ 1,230      $ 1,230
Long-term investments        $ 1,699      $ 1,699      $ 2,058      $ 2,058
Non-marketable instruments   $   239      $   259      $    59      $   144
Swaps hedging investments 
  in debt securities         $    (7)     $    (7)     $     8      $     8
Swaps hedging investments 
  in equity securities       $   (42)     $   (42)     $    60      $    60
Options hedging 
  investments in non-
  marketable instruments     $    (9)     $   (13)     $    --      $    --
Short-term debt              $  (346)     $  (346)     $  (517)     $  (517)
Long-term debt               $  (400)     $  (399)     $  (392)     $  (384)
Swaps hedging debt           $    --      $    (1)     $    --      $   (12)
Currency forward contracts   $     3      $     4      $     1      $     5
Currency options             $    --      $    --      $    --      $    --
</TABLE>
Concentrations of credit risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of investments and trade receivables. Intel 
places its investments with high-credit-quality counterparties and, by policy, 
limits the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. A substantial 
majority of the Company's trade receivables are derived from sales to 
manufacturers of microcomputer systems, with the remainder spread across 
various other industries. 
During 1995, the Company experienced an increase in its concentration of credit
risk due to increasing trade receivables from sales to manufacturers of 
microcomputer systems. The Company's five largest customers accounted for 
approximately 33% of net revenues for 1995. At December 30, 1995, these 
customers accounted for approximately 34% of net accounts receivable. A portion
of the receivable balance from one of the Company's five largest customers has 
been converted into a loan. The total amount receivable from this customer was 
approximately $400 million at December 30, 1995.
The Company endeavors to keep pace with the evolving computer industry and has 
adopted credit policies and standards intended to accommodate industry growth 
and inherent risk. Management believes that credit risks are moderated by the 
diversity of its end customers and geographic sales areas. Intel performs 
ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and requires 
collateral as deemed necessary. 
<TABLE>
Interest income and other
(In millions)                        1995             1994             1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>              <C>
Interest income                    $   272          $   235          $   155
Foreign currency gains                  29               15               --
Other income                           114               23               33
                                   -------          -------          -------
Total                              $   415          $   273          $   188
                                   =======          =======          =======
</TABLE>
Other income for 1995 included approximately $58 million from the settlement of
ongoing litigation and $60 million from sales of a portion of the Company's 
investment in marketable equity securities. Other income for 1994 included non-
recurring gains from the settlement of various insurance claims. Other income 
for 1993 included non-recurring gains from the sale of certain benefits related
to the Company's Irish expansion and dividend income earned on equity 
investments.
Provision for taxes 
The provision for taxes consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                        1995             1994             1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>              <C>
Income before taxes:
  U.S.                             $ 3,427          $ 2,460          $ 2,587
  Foreign                            2,211            1,143              943
                                   -------          -------          -------
Total income before taxes          $ 5,638          $ 3,603          $ 3,530
                                   =======          =======          =======
Provision for taxes:
Federal:
  Current                          $ 1,169          $ 1,169          $   946
  Deferred                             307             (178)              35
                                   -------          -------          -------
                                     1,476              991              981
                                   -------          -------          -------
State: 
  Current                              203              162              150
Foreign: 
  Current                              354              134              127
  Deferred                              39               28              (23)
                                   -------          -------          -------
                                       393              162              104
                                   -------          -------          -------
Total provision for taxes          $ 2,072          $ 1,315          $ 1,235
                                   =======          =======          =======
Effective tax rate                   36.8%            36.5%            35.0%
                                   =======          =======          =======
</TABLE>
The tax benefit associated with dispositions from employee stock plans reduced
taxes currently payable for 1995 by $116 million ($61 million and $68 million
for 1994 and 1993, respectively). 
The provision for taxes reconciled to the amount computed by applying the 
statutory federal rate of 35% to income before taxes as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                        1995             1994             1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>              <C>
Computed expected tax              $ 1,973          $ 1,261          $ 1,235
State taxes, net of federal 
  benefits                             132              105               98
Other                                  (33)             (51)             (98)
                                   -------          -------          -------
Provision for taxes                $ 2,072          $ 1,315          $ 1,235
                                   =======          =======          =======
</TABLE>
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences 
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. 
Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities at
fiscal year-ends were as follows: 
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                               1995          1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>
Deferred tax assets
Accrued compensation and benefits                         $    61       $    49
Deferred income                                               127           127
Inventory valuation and related reserves                      104           255
Interest and taxes                                             61            54
Other, net                                                     55            67
                                                          -------       -------
                                                              408           552
Deferred tax liabilities
Depreciation                                                 (475)         (338)
Unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries                  (116)          (51)
Other, net                                                    (29)           --
                                                          -------       -------
                                                             (620)         (389)
                                                          -------       -------
Net deferred tax (liability) asset                        $  (212)      $   163
                                                          =======       =======
</TABLE>
U.S. income taxes were not provided for on a cumulative total of approximately 
$615 million of undistributed earnings for certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. The 
Company intends to reinvest these earnings indefinitely in operations outside 
the United States. 
The Company's U.S. income tax returns for the years 1978 through 1987 have been
examined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In 1989, the Company received 
a notice of proposed deficiencies from the IRS totaling $36 million, exclusive 
of penalties and interest, for the years 1978 through 1982. These proposed 
deficiencies relate primarily to operations in Puerto Rico. In 1989, the Company
filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court contesting these proposed deficiencies 
and subsequently reached settlement of certain issues with the IRS. In 1993, 
the U.S. Tax Court ruled in favor of the Company on an export source issue and 
for the IRS on another, smaller issue. The IRS appealed the decision to the 
United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and the Company filed a 
cross-appeal of the decision. In 1995, the Court of Appeals affirmed the 
decision of the Tax Court. The IRS has subsequently requested a re-hearing. 
The Company has also received an examination report for the years 1983 through
1987. Intel has lodged a protest, which relates solely to the export source 
issue referenced above, to the IRS Appeals Office, but no decisions have been 
reached.
The Company's U.S. income tax returns for the years 1988 through 1990 are 
presently under examination by the IRS. Final proposed adjustments have not yet
been received for these years. Management believes that adequate amounts of tax
and related interest and penalties, if any, have been provided for any 
adjustments that may result from unsettled portions of the 1978-1987 cases or 
the years now under examination.
Employee benefit plans
Stock option plans. Intel has a stock option plan (hereafter referred to as the
EOP Plan) under which officers, key employees and non-employee directors may be
granted options to purchase shares of the Company's authorized but unissued 
Common Stock. The Company also has an Executive Long-Term Stock Option Plan 
(ELTSOP) under which certain key executive officers may be granted options to 
purchase shares of the Company's authorized but unissued Common Stock. Under 
all plans, the option purchase price is not less than fair market value at the 
date of grant. The Company accounts for stock options in accordance with APB 
Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees." In accordance with 
SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company intends to
continue to apply APB No. 25 for purposes of determining net income and to 
adopt the pro forma disclosure requirements for fiscal 1996.
Options currently expire no later than ten years from the grant date. Proceeds 
received by the Company from exercises are credited to Common Stock and 
capital in excess of par value. Additional information with respect to EOP Plan
activity was as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                         Outstanding options
                                           Shares      -----------------------
                                        available         Number    Aggregate
(In millions)                         for options      of shares        price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>          <C>
December 26, 1992                            65.4           73.6     $   669
Grants                                      (15.2)          15.2         357
Exercises                                      --           (9.0)        (56)
Cancellations                                 1.8           (1.8)        (24)
                                          -------        -------     -------
December 25, 1993                            52.0           78.0         946
Grants                                      (12.0)          12.0         397
Exercises                                      --           (8.2)        (54)
Cancellations                                 1.6           (1.6)        (33)
                                          -------        -------     -------
December 31, 1994                            41.6           80.2       1,256
Grants                                      (13.5)          13.5         645
Exercises                                      --           (9.8)        (81)
Cancellations                                 3.0           (3.0)        (77)
                                          -------        -------     -------
December 30, 1995                            31.1           80.9     $ 1,743
                                          =======        =======     =======
Options exercisable at:
December 25, 1993                                           20.4     $   135
December 31, 1994                                           26.2     $   198
December 30, 1995                                           25.3     $   236
</TABLE>
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding under the EOP Plan at 
December 30, 1995 was $3.13 to $69.43. These options will expire if not 
exercised at specific dates ranging from January 1996 to December 2005. Prices 
for options exercised during the three-year period ended December 30, 1995 
ranged from $3.04 to $36.13.

Activity for the ELTSOP Plan is summarized below:
<TABLE>
                                                         Outstanding options
                                           Shares        -------------------
                                        available         Number     Aggregate
(In millions)                         for options      of shares        price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>             <C>         <C>
December 26, 1992                            13.2            6.0     $    44
Grants                                       (0.4)           0.4          11
Exercises                                      --           (0.8)         (6)
                                          -------        -------     -------
December 25, 1993                            12.8            5.6          49
Exercises                                      --           (0.6)         (4)
                                          -------        -------     -------
December 31, 1994                            12.8            5.0          45
Grants                                       (0.5)           0.5          30
Exercises                                      --           (0.9)         (6)
                                          -------        -------     -------
December 30, 1995                            12.3            4.6     $    69
                                          =======        =======     =======
Options exercisable at:
December 25, 1993                                            1.4     $    11
December 31, 1994                                            2.6     $    19
December 30, 1995                                            3.8     $    29
</TABLE>
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding under the ELTSOP Plan at
December 30, 1995 was $7.31 to $60.48. 

These options will expire if not exercised at specific dates ranging from April
1999 to September 2005. Prices for options exercised during the three-year 
period ended December 30, 1995 ranged from $7.31 to $7.34.
Stock participation plan. Under this plan, eligible employees may purchase 
shares of Intel's Common Stock at 85% of fair market value at specific, 
predetermined dates. Of the 59.0 million shares authorized to be issued under 
the plan, 11.9 million shares were available for issuance at December 30, 1995.
Employees purchased 3.5 million shares in 1995 (4.0 million and 4.4 million in 
1994 and 1993, respectively) for $110 million ($94 million and $71 million in 
1994 and 1993, respectively).
Retirement plans. The Company provides tax-qualified profit-sharing retirement 
plans (the "Qualified Plans") for the benefit of eligible employees in the U.S.
and Puerto Rico. The plans are designed to provide employees with an 
accumulation of funds for retirement on a tax-deferred basis and provide for 
annual discretionary contributions to trust funds. 
The Company also provides a non-qualified profit-sharing retirement plan (the 
"Non-Qualified Plan") for the benefit of eligible employees in the U.S. This 
plan is designed to permit certain discretionary employer contributions in 
excess of the tax limits applicable to the Qualified Plans and to permit 
employee deferrals in excess of certain tax limits. This plan is unfunded.
The Company accrued $188 million for the Qualified Plans and the Non-Qualified
Plan in 1995 ($152 million in 1994 and $103 million in 1993). Of the $188 
million accrued in 1995, the Company expects to fund approximately $145 million
for the 1995 contribution to the Qualified Plans and to allocate approximately 
$6 million for the Non-Qualified Plan. The remainder, plus approximately $140 
million carried forward from prior years, is expected to be contributed to 
these plans when allowable under IRS regulations and plan rules. Contributions
made by the Company vest based on the employee's years of service. Vesting 
begins after three years of service in 20% annual increments until the employee
is 100% vested after seven years.
The Company provides tax-qualified defined-benefit pension plans for the 
benefit of eligible employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Each plan provides 
for minimum pension benefits that are determined by a participant's years of 
service, final average compensation (taking into account the participant's 
social security wage base) and the value of the Company's contributions, plus 
earnings, in the Qualified Plan. If the balance in the participant's Qualified 
Plan exceeds the pension guarantee, the participant will receive benefits from 
the Qualified Plan only. Intel's funding policy is consistent with the funding 
requirements of federal laws and regulations.
Pension expense for 1995, 1994 and 1993 for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans was 
less than $1 million per year, and no component of expense exceeded $2 million.
The funded status of these plans as of December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994 
was as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                               1995          1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C> 
Vested benefit obligation                                 $    (3)      $    (3)
                                                          =======       =======
Accumulated benefit obligation                            $    (4)      $    (3)
                                                          =======       =======
Projected benefit obligation                              $    (6)      $    (5)
Fair market value of plan assets                                8             6
                                                          -------       -------
Projected benefit obligation less than plan assets              2             1
Unrecognized net (gain)                                       (12)          (12)
Unrecognized prior service cost                                 3             4
                                                          -------       -------
Accrued pension costs                                     $    (7)      $    (7)
                                                          =======       =======
</TABLE>
At fiscal year-ends, the weighted average discount rates and Long-Term rates 
for compensation increases used for estimating the benefit obligations and the 
expected return on plan assets were as follows:
<TABLE>
                                     1995             1994             1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>              <C>              <C>
Discount rate                         7.0%             8.5%             7.0%
Rate of increase in compensation 
  levels                              5.0%             5.5%             5.0%
Expected Long-Term return on assets   8.5%             8.5%             8.5%
</TABLE>
Plan assets of the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans consist primarily of listed 
stocks and bonds, repurchase agreements, money market securities, U.S. 
government securities and stock index derivatives.
The Company provides defined-benefit pension plans in certain foreign countries 
where required by statute. The Company's funding policy for foreign defined-
benefit plans is consistent with the local requirements in each country. 
Pension expense for 1995, 1994 and 1993 for the foreign plans included the 
following:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                        1995             1994             1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>              <C>              <C>
Service cost-benefits earned 
  during the year                  $     9          $     5          $     5
Interest cost of projected 
  benefit obligation                     6                5                6
Actual investment (return)
  on plan assets                        (4)              (8)              (7)
Net amortization and deferral           (2)               3                2
                                   -------          -------          -------
Net pension expense                $     9          $     5          $     6
                                   =======          =======          =======
</TABLE>
The funded status of the foreign defined-benefit plans as of December 30, 1995 
and December 31, 1994 is summarized below: 
<TABLE>
                                                     Assets          Accu-
                                                     exceed          mulated
                                                     accu-           benefits
1995                                                 mulated         exceed
(In millions)                                        benefits        assets
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>             <C>
Vested benefit obligation                             $   (44)        $    (8)
                                                      =======         =======
Accumulated benefit obligation                        $   (46)        $   (14)
                                                      =======         =======
Projected benefit obligation                          $   (62)        $   (22)
Fair market value of plan assets                           67               4
                                                      -------         -------
Projected benefit obligation less than
  (in excess of) plan assets                                5             (18)
Unrecognized net loss                                       4               5
Unrecognized net transition obligation                      2              --
                                                      -------         -------
Prepaid (accrued) pension costs                       $    11         $   (13)
                                                      =======         =======

                                                     Assets          Accu-
                                                     exceed          mulated
                                                     accu-           benefits
1994                                                 mulated         exceed
(In millions)                                        benefits        assets
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Vested benefit obligation                             $   (32)        $    (4)
                                                      =======         =======
Accumulated benefit obligation                        $   (34)        $    (9)
                                                      =======         =======
Projected benefit obligation                          $   (49)        $   (16)
Fair market value of plan assets                           51               3
                                                      -------         -------
Projected benefit obligation 
  less than (in excess of) plan assets                      2             (13)
Unrecognized net loss                                       2               2
Unrecognized net transition obligation                     --               1
                                                      -------         -------
Prepaid (accrued) pension costs                       $     4         $   (10)
                                                      =======         =======
</TABLE>
At fiscal year-ends, the weighted average discount rates and Long-Term rates 
for compensation increases used for estimating the benefit obligations and the 
expected return on plan assets were as follows:
<TABLE>
                                     1995             1994             1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>              <C>              <C>
Discount rate                      5.5%-14%         5.5%-14%         5.5%-14%
Rate of increase in 
  compensation levels              4.5%-11%         4.5%-11%         4.5%-11%
Expected Long-Term return on 
  assets                           5.5%-14%         5.5%-14%         5.5%-14%
</TABLE>
Plan assets of the foreign plans consist primarily of listed stocks, bonds and 
cash surrender value life insurance policies.
Other postemployment benefits. The Company has adopted SFAS No. 106, 
"Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," and 
SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits." There was 
no material impact on the Company's financial statements for the periods 
presented.
Commitments
The Company leases a portion of its capital equipment and certain of its 
facilities under operating leases that expire at various dates through 2011. 
Rental expense was $38 million in 1995, $38 million in 1994 and $35 million in 
1993. Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable leases with an 
initial term in excess of one year are payable as follows: 1996--$25 million; 
1997--$20 million; 1998--$15 million; 1999--$12 million; 2000--$10 million; 2001
and beyond--$23 million. Commitments for construction or purchase of property, 
plant and equipment approximated $1.47 billion at December 30, 1995. In 
connection with certain manufacturing arrangements, Intel had minimum purchase 
commitments of approximately $1.12 billion at December 30, 1995 for flash 
memories and other memory components and for production capacity of board-level
products.
Contingencies
On March 29, 1995, Thorn EMI North America Inc. brought suit in Federal Court 
in Delaware against Intel and Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) alleging 
infringement of a U.S. patent relating to processes for manufacturing 
semiconductors, certain of which processes are utilized in the manufacture of 
the Company's Pentium(R) and Pentium(R) Pro microprocessors. The plaintiff is 
seeking injunctive relief and unspecified damages. On September 8, 1995, Intel 
was granted a motion to sever its case from the AMD case. Trial of the 
plaintiff's claims against Intel is presently set for June 1996. The Company 
believes this lawsuit to be without merit and intends to defend the lawsuit 
vigorously. Although the ultimate outcome of this lawsuit cannot be determined 
at this time, management, including internal counsel, does not believe that the
outcome of this litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial position or overall trends in results of operations.
Intel has been named to the California and U.S. Superfund lists for three of 
its sites and has completed, along with two other companies, a Remedial 
Investigation/Feasibility study with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 
(EPA) to evaluate the groundwater in areas adjacent to one of its former sites.
The EPA has issued a Record of Decision with respect to a groundwater cleanup 
plan at that site, including expected costs to complete. Under the California 
and U.S. Superfund statutes, liability for cleanup of this site and the 
adjacent area is joint and several. The Company, however, has reached agreement
with those same two companies which significantly limits the Company's 
liabilities under the proposed cleanup plan. Also, the Company has completed 
extensive studies at its other sites and is engaged in cleanup at several of 
these sites. In the opinion of management, including internal counsel, the 
potential losses to the Company in excess of amounts already accrued arising 
out of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's 
financial position or overall trends in results of operations, even if joint 
and several liability were to be assessed. 
The Company is party to various other legal proceedings. In the opinion of 
management, including internal counsel, these proceedings will not have a 
material adverse effect on the financial position or overall trends in results 
of operations of the Company. 
The estimate of the potential impact on the Company's financial position or 
overall results of operations for the above legal proceedings could change in 
the future.
Industry segment reporting
The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment. The Company 
designs, develops, manufactures and markets microcomputer components and 
related products at various levels of integration. The Company sells its 
products directly to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and also to a 
network of industrial and retail distributors throughout the world. The 
Company's principal markets are in the United States, Europe, Asia-Pacific and 
Japan, with the U.S. and Europe being the largest based on revenues. The 
Company's major products include microprocessors and related board-level 
products, chipsets, embedded processors and microcontrollers, flash memory 
chips, and network and communications products. Microprocessors and related 
board-level products account for a substantial majority of the Company's net 
revenues. No customer exceeded 10% of revenues in 1995 or 1994. One significant
customer accounted for 10% of revenues in 1993. Summary balance sheet 
information for operations outside the United States at 
Fiscal year-ends is as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                               1995          1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                       <C>           <C>
Total assets                                              $ 4,404       $ 2,940
Total liabilities                                         $ 1,661       $   962
Net property, plant and equipment                         $ 1,414       $ 1,238
</TABLE>
Geographic information for the three years ended December 30, 1995 is presented
in the following table. Transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at
amounts that are generally above cost and consistent with rules and regulations
of governing tax authorities. Such transfers are eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements. Operating income by geographic segment does not include 
an allocation of general corporate expenses. identifiable assets are those that 
can be directly associated with a particular geographic area. Corporate assets 
include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, deferred tax assets,
other current assets, long-term investments and certain other assets.
<TABLE>
                                   Transfers
                       Sales to      between                            Identi-
(In millions)      unaffiliated   geographic         Net    Operating    fiable
1995                  customers        areas    revenues       income    assets
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                     <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>       <C>
United States           $ 7,922      $ 6,339     $14,261      $ 3,315   $12,603
Europe                    4,560        1,190       5,750        1,383     2,517
Japan                     1,737           28       1,765          353       665
Asia-Pacific              1,983        1,566       3,549          271       893
Other                        --          684         684          410       329
Eliminations                 --       (9,807)     (9,807)         124    (3,651)
Corporate                    --           --          --         (604)    4,148
                        -------      -------     -------      -------   -------
Consolidated            $16,202      $    --     $16,202      $ 5,252   $17,504
                        =======      =======     =======      =======   =======

1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States           $ 5,826      $ 4,561     $10,387      $ 2,742   $ 7,771
Europe                    3,158          380       3,538          418     1,733
Japan                       944           61       1,005          125       343
Asia-Pacific              1,593        1,021       2,614          154       540
Other                        --          639         639          378       324
Eliminations                 --       (6,662)     (6,662)         179    (1,878)
Corporate                    --           --          --         (609)    4,983
                        -------      -------     -------      -------   -------
Consolidated            $11,521      $    --     $11,521      $ 3,387   $13,816
                        =======      =======     =======      =======   =======

1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States           $ 4,416      $ 3,406     $ 7,822      $ 2,896   $ 5,379
Europe                    2,476           51       2,527          309     1,214
Japan                       678          119         797          108       351
Asia-Pacific              1,212          745       1,957          132       420
Other                        --          566         566          348       207
Eliminations                 --       (4,887)     (4,887)          85    (1,123)
Corporate                    --           --          --         (486)    4,896
                        -------      -------     -------      -------   -------
Consolidated            $ 8,782      $    --     $ 8,782      $ 3,392   $11,344
                         =======      =======     =======      =======   =======
</TABLE>
Supplemental information (unaudited)
Quarterly information for the two years ended December 30, 1995 is presented on
page 31. 



Report Of Ernst & Young LLP,  Independent Auditors
The Board of Directors and 
Stockholders, Intel Corporation
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Intel 
Corporation as of December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, and the related 
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 30, 1995. These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based 
on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of 
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant 
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position 
of Intel Corporation at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, and the 
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 30, 1995, in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles.


San Jose, California
January 15, 1996

Financial Summary
Ten Years Ended December 30, 1995 
<TABLE>
                                                                      Additions
                 Net investment             Long-term      Stock-  to property,
                   in property,     Total  debt & put    holders'       plant &
(In millions)    plant & equip.    assets    warrants      equity     equipment
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                  <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>          <C>
1995                  $ 7,471     $17,504     $ 1,125     $12,140      $ 3,550
1994                  $ 5,367     $13,816     $ 1,136     $ 9,267      $ 2,441
1993                  $ 3,996     $11,344     $ 1,114     $ 7,500      $ 1,933
1992                  $ 2,816     $ 8,089     $   622     $ 5,445      $ 1,228
1991                  $ 2,163     $ 6,292     $   503     $ 4,418      $   948
1990                  $ 1,658     $ 5,376     $   345     $ 3,592      $   680
1989                  $ 1,284     $ 3,994     $   412     $ 2,549      $   422
1988                  $ 1,122     $ 3,550     $   479     $ 2,080      $   477
1987                  $   891     $ 2,499     $   298     $ 1,276      $   302
1986                  $   779     $ 1,977     $   287     $ 1,245      $   155
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
(In millions--except per share amounts)
                           Research  Operating        Net   Earnings  Dividends
           Net   Cost of   & devel-     income     income      (loss)  declared
      revenues     sales     opment      (loss)     (loss) per share  per share
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>    <C>       <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
1995   $16,202   $ 7,811    $ 1,296    $ 5,252    $ 3,566    $  4.03    $  0.15
1994   $11,521   $ 5,576    $ 1,111    $ 3,387    $ 2,288    $  2.62    $ 0.115
1993   $ 8,782   $ 3,252    $   970    $ 3,392    $ 2,295    $  2.60    $  0.10
1992   $ 5,844   $ 2,557    $   780    $ 1,490    $ 1,067    $  1.24    $  0.05
1991   $ 4,779   $ 2,316    $   618    $ 1,080    $   819    $  0.98         --
1990   $ 3,921   $ 1,930    $   517    $   858    $   650    $  0.80         --
1989   $ 3,127   $ 1,721    $   365    $   557    $   391    $  0.52         --
1988   $ 2,875   $ 1,506    $   318    $   594    $   453    $  0.63         --
1987   $ 1,907   $ 1,044    $   260    $   246    $   248    $  0.34         --
1986   $ 1,265   $   861    $   228    $  (195)   $  (203)   $ (0.29)        --
</TABLE>
Management's  Discussion And Analysis Of Financial Condition 
And Results Of Operations
Results of operations. Intel posted record net revenues in 1995, for the 
ninth consecutive year, rising by 41% from 1994 to 1995 and by 31% from 1993 
to 1994. Higher volumes of the rapidly ramping Pentium(R) microprocessor 
family, partially offset by lower prices, and increased sales of related board-
level products were responsible for most of the growth in revenues in 1994 and 
1995. Revenues from the Intel486(TM) microprocessor family declined 
substantially in 1995 due to a shift in market demand toward the Company's 
Pentium microprocessors and lower Intel486 microprocessor prices.
Higher volumes of flash memory and chipset products also contributed toward the
increase in revenues from 1993 to 1995 and also helped enable the successful 
Pentium microprocessor ramp. Sales of system platforms, embedded control 
products, and networking and communications products also grew.
Cost of sales increased by 40% from 1994 to 1995 and by 71% from 1993 to 1994. 
The growth in cost of sales from 1993 to 1995 was driven by Pentium 
microprocessor and board-level unit volume growth, new factories coming into 
production, shifts in process and product mix, and in the fourth quarter of 
1995, by costs associated with unusually high reserves related to inventories 
of certain purchased components. Gross margin for the fourth quarter of 1994 
included the impact of a $475 million charge, primarily to cost of sales, to 
cover replacement costs, replacement material and an inventory writedown 
related to a divide problem in the floating point unit of the Pentium 
microprocessor. As a result of the above factors, the gross margin percentage 
was 52% in 1995 and 1994, compared to 63% in 1993.
Quarterly unit shipments of the Pentium microprocessor family surpassed those 
of the Intel486 microprocessor family during the third quarter of 1995. The 
Company helped accelerate this transition by offering chipsets and motherboards
to enable computer manufacturers to bring their products to market faster. 
Sales of the Pentium microprocessor family comprised a majority of the 
Company's revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin during 1995.
During 1995, the Intel486 microprocessor family represented a significant but 
rapidly declining portion of the Company's revenues and gross margins. The 
Intel486 microprocessor family comprised a majority of the Company's revenues 
and a substantial majority of its gross margin during 1993 and 1994. 
Research and development spending grew by 17% from 1994 to 1995, as the Company
continued to invest in strategic programs, particularly for the internal 
development of microprocessor products and related manufacturing technology. 
Increased spending for marketing programs, including media merchandising and 
the Company's Intel Inside(R) cooperative advertising program, drove the 27% 
increase in marketing, general and administrative expenses from 1994 to 1995.
The $28 million decrease in interest expense from 1994 to 1995 was mainly due 
to lower average borrowing balances in addition to higher interest 
capitalization resulting from increased facility construction programs. The 
increase in interest expense from 1993 to 1994 was primarily due to higher 
average interest rates on borrowings, partially offset by higher interest 
capitalization.
Interest and other income increased by $142 million from 1994 to 1995, 
primarily due to higher average interest rates on investments in 1995, gains 
of $58 million related to the settlement of litigation and gains of $60 
million from the sale of a portion of the Company's investment in marketable 
equity securities. Interest and other income increased by $85 million from 1993
to 1994, mainly due to higher average interest rates on investments in 1994, 
gains related to the settlement of various insurance claims in 1994, and 
higher foreign exchange gains and investment balances in 1994. Interest and 
other income in 1993 included gains of $27 million from the sale of certain 
foreign benefits related to a plant expansion in Ireland during 1993. 
The Company utilizes investments and corresponding interest rate swaps to 
preserve principal while enhancing the yield on its investment portfolio 
without significantly increasing risk, and uses forward contracts, options and 
swaps to hedge currency, market and interest rate exposures. Gains and losses 
on these instruments are generally offset by those on the underlying hedged 
transactions; as a result, there was no material net impact on the Company's
financial results during the 1993- 1995 period.
The Company's effective income tax rate increased to 36.8% in 1995 compared to 
36.5% and 35.0% in 1994 and 1993, respectively. The increases in rate from 
1993 to 1995 resulted from the fact that tax credits have not grown as rapidly 
as overall pretax income. 
Financial condition. The Company's financial condition remains very strong. As 
of December 30, 1995, total cash and short- and long-term investments totaled 
$4.11 billion, down from $4.54 billion at December 31, 1994. Cash generated 
from operating activities rose to $4.03 billion in 1995, compared to $2.98 
billion and $2.80 billion in 1994 and 1993, respectively.
Investing activities consumed $2.69 billion in cash during 1995, compared to 
$2.90 billion during 1994 and $3.34 billion during 1993. Capital expenditures 
increased substantially in both 1994 and 1995, as the Company continued to 
invest in the property, plant and equipment needed for future business 
requirements, including manufacturing capacity. The Company expects to spend 
approximately $4.1 billion for capital additions in 1996 and had committed 
approximately $1.47 billion for the construction or purchase of property, plant 
and equipment as of December 30, 1995.
Inventory levels, particularly raw materials and finished goods, increased 
significantly in 1995. This increase was primarily attributable to the increased
level of business and, to a lesser extent, to an unusually low level of 
inventory at the end of 1994 because of a writedown of inventories in the 
fourth quarter of 1994 in connection with the divide problem in the floating 
point unit of the Pentium processor. The increase in accounts receivable in 
1995 was mainly due to revenue growth, including the growth of non-domestic 
sales that have longer payment terms. During 1995, the Company experienced an 
increase in its concentration of credit risk due to increasing trade 
receivables from sales to manufacturers of microcomputer systems. The Company's
five largest customers accounted for approximately 33% of net revenues for 
1995. At December 30, 1995, these customers accounted for approximately 34% of 
net accounts receivable. A portion of the receivable balance from one of its 
five largest customers has been converted into a loan. The total amount 
receivable from this customer was approximately $400 million at December 30, 
1995.
The Company used $1.06 billion and $557 million for financing activities in 
1995 and 1994, respectively, while $352 million was provided in 1993. The major
financing application of cash in 1995 was for stock repurchases totaling $1.03 
billion. Financing applications of cash in 1994 included stock repurchases of 
$658 million and the early retirement of the Company's 8 1/8% debt. Sources of 
financing in 1993 included the Company's public offering of the 1998 Step-Up 
Warrants, which resulted in proceeds of $287 million.
As part of its authorized stock repurchase program, the Company had outstanding
put warrants at the end of 1995, with the potential obligation to buy back 12 
million shares of its Common Stock at an aggregate price of $725 million. The 
exercise price of these warrants ranges from $38 to $68 per share, with an 
average exercise price of $60 per share.
Other sources of liquidity include combined credit lines and authorized 
commercial paper borrowings of $1.86 billion, $57 million of which was 
outstanding at December 30, 1995. The Company also maintains the ability to 
issue an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion in debt, equity and other 
securities under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) shelf registration 
statements. The Company believes that it has the financial resources needed to 
meet business requirements in the foreseeable future, including capital 
expenditures for the recently announced expansion of international 
manufacturing sites, working capital requirements, the potential put warrant 
obligation and the dividend program.
Outlook. The statements contained in this Outlook are based on current 
expectations. These statements are forward looking, and actual results may 
differ materially. 
Intel expects that the total number of personal computers using Intel's 
Pentium microprocessors and other semiconductor components sold worldwide will 
continue to grow in 1996. Intel has expanded manufacturing capacity over the 
last few years and continues to expand capacity to be able to meet the 
potential increase in demand. Intel's financial results are to a large extent 
dependent on this market segment. Revenue is also a function of the 
distribution of microprocessor speed and performance levels, which is difficult
to forecast. Because of the large price difference between components for the 
highest and lowest performance computers, this distribution affects the 
average price Intel will realize and has a large impact on Intel's revenues.
Intel's strategy has been, and continues to be, to introduce ever higher 
performance microprocessors and work with the software industry to develop 
compelling applications that can take advantage of this higher performance, 
thus driving demand toward the newer products. Capacity has been planned based 
on the assumed continued success of the Company's strategy. 
In line with this strategy, the Company has recently announced higher speed 
members of the Pentium(R) Pro microprocessor family. If the market demand does 
not continue to grow and move rapidly toward higher performance products, 
revenue growth may be impacted, the manufacturing capacity installed might be 
under-utilized and capital spending may be slowed. The Company may continue to 
reduce microprocessor prices aggressively and systematically to bring its 
technology to market.
The Company's gross margin percentage is a sensitive function of the product 
mix sold in any period. Because the percentage of motherboards that Intel's 
customers purchase changes with maturity of the product cycle, and motherboards
generally have lower gross margin percentages than microprocessors, Intel's 
gross margin percentage varies depending on the mix of microprocessors and 
related motherboards within a product family. Various other factors, including 
unit volumes and costs and yield issues associated with initiating production 
at new factories or on new processes, also will continue to affect the amount 
of cost of sales and the variability of gross margin percentages in future 
quarters. From time to time the Company may forecast a range of gross margin
percentages for the coming quarter. Actual results may differ. Longer term 
gross margin percentages are even more difficult to predict.
To implement its strategy, Intel continues to build capacity to produce high-
performance microprocessors and other products. The Company expects that 
capital spending will increase to approximately $4.1 billion in 1996. This 
spending plan is dependent upon delivery times of various machines and 
construction schedules for new facilities. Based on this forecast, depreciation
for 1996 is expected to be approximately $1.9 billion, an increase of 
approximately $500 million from 1995. Most of this increased depreciation will 
be included in cost of sales and research and development spending.
The industry in which Intel operates is characterized by very short product 
life cycles. Intel considers it imperative to maintain a strong research and 
development program to continue to succeed. Accordingly, research and 
development spending is expected to grow in 1996 to approximately $1.6 billion.
The Company will also continue spending to promote its products and to increase
the value of its product brands. Based on current forecasts, spending for 
marketing and general and administrative expenses is expected to increase in 
1996.
The Company expects its tax rate to decrease to 36.5% for 1996. This estimate 
is based on current tax law and is subject to change.
The Company's future results of operations and the other forward looking 
statements contained in this Outlook, in particular the statements regarding 
growth in the personal computer industry, capital spending, depreciation, 
research and development, and marketing and general and administrative 
expenses, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. In addition to the 
factors discussed above, among the other factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially are the following: business conditions and the 
general economy; competitive factors, such as rival chip architectures, 
competing software compatible microprocessors, acceptance of new products and 
price pressures; availability of third-party component products at reasonable 
prices; risk of nonpayment of accounts receivable or customer loans; 
manufacturing ramp and capacity; risks associated with foreign operations; risk
of inventory obsolescence due to shifts in market demand; timing of software 
industry product introductions; and litigation involving intellectual property 
and consumer issues.
Intel believes that it has the product offerings, facilities, personnel, and
competitive and financial resources for continued business success, but future
revenues, costs, margins, product mix and profits are all influenced by a number
of factors, as discussed above.

Financial Information  By Quarter 
(In millions--except per share data)
(Unaudited)
<TABLE>
1995 for quarter ended      December 30  September 30       July 1      April 1
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>           <C>          <C>          <C>
Net revenues                    $ 4,580       $ 4,171      $ 3,894      $ 3,557
Cost of sales                   $ 2,389       $ 2,008      $ 1,805      $ 1,609
Net income                      $   867       $   931      $   879      $   889
Earnings per share              $   .98       $  1.05      $   .99      $  1.02
Dividends per share(A) 
               Declared         $   .04       $   .04      $   .04      $   .03
               Paid             $   .04       $   .04      $   .03      $   .03
Market price range Common 
  Stock(B)     High             $ 72.88       $ 76.44      $ 65.63      $ 44.25
               Low              $ 56.75       $ 58.63      $ 42.75      $ 31.81
Market price range Step-Up 
  Warrants(B)  High             $ 39.00       $ 43.63      $ 31.88      $ 11.91
               Low              $ 26.75       $ 30.44      $ 11.31      $  6.97

(In millions-except per share data)
1994 for quarter ended      December 31     October 1       July 2      April 2
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net revenues                    $ 3,228       $ 2,863      $ 2,770      $ 2,660
Cost of sales                   $ 2,023       $ 1,273      $ 1,156      $ 1,124
Net income                      $   372(C)    $   659      $   640      $   617
Earnings per share              $   .43       $   .76      $   .73      $   .70
Dividends per share(A) 
               Declared         $   .03       $   .03      $   .03      $  .025
               Paid             $   .03       $   .03      $  .025      $  .025
Market price range Common 
  Stock(B)     High             $ 33.06       $ 33.63      $ 35.31      $ 36.13
               Low              $ 28.91       $ 28.25      $ 28.75      $ 30.63
Market price range Step-Up 
  Warrants(B)  High             $  7.50       $  8.00      $  9.22      $  9.75
               Low              $  6.16       $  6.50      $  6.50      $  7.56
</TABLE>
(A) Intel plans to continue its dividend program. However, dividends are 
dependent on future earnings, capital requirements and financial condition.
(B) Intel's Common Stock (symbol INTC) and 1998 Step-Up Warrants (symbol INTCW)
trade on The Nasdaq Stock Market  and are quoted in the Wall Street Journal 
and other newspapers. Intel's Common Stock also trades on the Zurich, Basel and
Geneva, Switzerland exchanges. At December 30, 1995, there were approximately 
69,400 holders of Common Stock. All stock and warrant prices are closing prices
per The Nasdaq Stock Market.
(C) Net income for the fourth quarter of 1994 was impacted by a $475 million 
pretax charge to revenue and cost of sales to cover replacement and other costs
associated with a divide problem in the floating point unit of the Company's 
Pentium processor.


GRAPHICS APPENDIX LIST*
 
* In this Appendix, the following descriptions of graphs on pages 28 and 29 of
the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Stockholders that are omitted from the 
EDGAR text are more specific with respect to the actual amounts and percentages
than can be determined from the graphs themselves.
 
The Company submits such more specific descriptions only for the purpose of
complying with EDGAR requirements for transmitting this Annual Report on Form
10-K; such more specific descriptions are not intended in any way to provide
information that is additional to that otherwise provided in the 1995 Annual
Report to Stockholders.
 
<TABLE>
REVENUES AND INCOME
(Dollars in billions)                               1993      1994      1995
                                                  ------    ------    ------
<S>                                               <C>       <C>       <C>
Net revenues                                       8.782    11.521    16.202
Net income                                         2.295     2.288     3.566


COSTS AND EXPENSES
(Percent of revenues)                              1993      1994      1995
                                                 ------    ------    ------
Cost of sales                                       37%       48%       48%
R&D                                                 11%       10%        8%
Marketing and G&A                                   13%       13%       11%
 
 
OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE
(Dollars in millions)                              1993      1994      1995
                                                 ------    ------    ------
Interest and other income                           188       273       415
Interest expense                                     50        57        29



CASH AND INVESTMENTS
(Dollars in billions)                                        1994      1995
                                                           ------    ------
Cash and cash equivalents                                   1.180     1.463
Short-term investments                                      1.230      .995
Long-term investments                                       2.127     1.653
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 21





                               INTEL CORPORATION


                                  SUBSIDIARIES

                                (All 100% Owned)



Intel International
(Incorporated in California)

Intel Overseas Corp.
(Incorporated in California)

Synchroquartz (U.S.) Corp.
(Incorporated in California)



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) 
of Intel Corporation of our report dated January 15, 1996, included in the 1995
Annual Report to Stockholders of Intel Corporation.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Intel Corporation 
listed in Item 14(a).  This schedule is the responsibility of the Company's 
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. 
In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when 
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, 
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration 
Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 33-10392, 2-73464, 2-56648, 33-33983, 2-90217, 
33-29672, 33-41771, and 33-63489; and Form S-3 Nos. 33-20117, 33-54220, 
33-58964, 33-49827, 33-50971 and 33-56107) of our report dated January 15, 
1996, with respect to the financial statements incorporated herein by 
reference, and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to 
the financial statement schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of 
Intel Corporation.

                                                    /s/Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
March 27, 1996


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary information extracted from Intel Corporation's
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE
SHEETS and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such financial
statements.
</LEGEND>
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-30-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-30-1995
<CASH>                                            1463
<SECURITIES>                                       995
<RECEIVABLES>                                     3173
<ALLOWANCES>                                        57
<INVENTORY>                                       2004
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                  8097
<PP&E>                                           11792
<DEPRECIATION>                                    4321
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                   17504
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                             3619
<BONDS>                                            400
<COMMON>                                          2583
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                              725<F1>
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                           0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                     17504
<SALES>                                          16202
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 16202
<CGS>                                             7811
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                     7811
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                  1296<F2>
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                  29
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                   5638
<INCOME-TAX>                                      2072
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                               3566
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                      3566
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     4.03
<EPS-DILUTED>                                        0
<FN>
<F1>Item consists of put warrants.
<F2>Item consists of research and development.
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4
<SEQUENCE>8
<TEXT>

Exhibit 4.2

THIRD AMENDMENT TO WARRANT AGREEMENT

This Third Amendment to Warrant Agreement (this "Amendment") is made and 
entered into as of May 1, 1995, by and between Intel Corporation, a Delaware 
corporation (the "Company"), and Harris Trust and Savings Bank, an Illinois 
banking corporation ("Harris"), as Warrant Agent, for purposes of amending that
certain Warrant Agreement -- 1998 Step-Up Warrants to Purchase Common Stock, 
dated March 1, 1993, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Warrant 
Agreement, dated October 18, 1993, and that certain Second Amendment to Warrant
Agreement, dated January 17, 1994 (collectively, the "Warrant Agreement").

RECITALS
(a)     The Company issued 1998 Step-Up Warrants (the "Warrants") entitling 
holders to purchase 20,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock, $.001 par 
value (the "Common Stock") (as adjusted for previous stock splits);
(b)     On April 27, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two for 
one stock split to be effected as a special stock distribution of one share of 
Common Stock for each share of Common Stock outstanding (the "Split"); and
(c)     Pursuant to Sections 14(a), (h) and (k) of the Agreement, the Warrants 
will be adjusted, as of the June 16, 1995 payment date for the Split (the 
"Payment Date"), by reducing the per share exercise prices of each Warrant to 
one-half of the per share exercise prices in effect immediately prior to the 
Payment Date, and by issuing to each Warrant holder of record on the May 19, 
1995 record date for the Split, one additional Warrant at the adjusted per 
share exercise prices for each Warrant held as of such record date.

AGREEMENT
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and 
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Company and Harris agree as 
follows:
1.     Effective as of June 16, 1995, Section 2 of the Warrant Agreement is 
hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"SECTION 2.  Amount Issued.  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, 
Warrants to purchase no more than forty million (40,000,000) Shares may be 
issued and delivered by the Company hereunder."
2.     Effective as of June 16, 1995, the second paragraph of Section 7 of the 
Warrant Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
"Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, including Section 14, each 
Warrant shall entitle the holder thereof to purchase from the Company (and 
the Company shall issue and sell to such holder of a Warrant) one fully paid 
and nonassessable Share at the price set forth in the following table (such 
price, as it may be adjusted from time to time as provided in Section 14, 
being the "Exercise Price"):

        Exercise Date
- -----------------------------------
After                  On or Before                 Exercise Price Per Share

May 13, 1993           March 14, 1994               $35.75**
March 14, 1994         March 14, 1995               $37.25**
March 14, 1995         March 14, 1996               $38.75
March 14, 1996         March 14, 1997               $40.25
March 14, 1997         March 14, 1998               $41.75

**(expired prior to, but adjusted to reflect, stock distribution paid 
June 16, 1995)"

3.     Effective as of June 16, 1995, Exhibit A is replaced with the attached 
       Exhibit A-3.
4.     Except as expressly modified herein, the Warrant Agreement remains in 
       full force and effect.
The parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed and delivered as 
of the date first set forth above.

Attest:                          INTEL CORPORATION
/s/ THOMAS R. LAVELLE            By: /s/ ARVIND SODHANI
- ---------------------            -------------------------------------
                                 Name/Title: Arvind Sodhani, Treasurer

Attest:                          HARRIS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK 
____________________________     By: /s/ RICHARD C. CARLSON
                                 ----------------------------------------------
                                 Name/Title: Richard C. Carlson, Vice President


EXHIBIT A-3 (REVISED 5/95)
[FORM OF FACE OF WARRANT CERTIFICATE]
VOID AFTER MARCH 14, 1998

No. C-                                              WARRANT TO PURCHASE _______
                                                         SHARES OF COMMON STOCK
INTEL CORPORATION
1998 STEP-UP WARRANT TO PURCHASE COMMON STOCK

     This Warrant Certificate certifies that ______________________ or 
registered assigns, is the registered holder of a 1998 Step-Up Warrant (the 
"Warrant") of Intel Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), to 
purchase the number of shares (the "Shares") of Common Stock, $0.001 par value
(the "Common Stock"), of the Company set forth above.  This Warrant expires at
5:00 p.m. New York City time (the "Close of Business") on March 14, 1998 (the 
"Expiration Date"), unless such date is extended at the option of the Company, 
and entitles the holder to purchase from the Company the number of fully paid 
and nonassessable Shares set forth above at the initial exercise price (the 
"Exercise Price"), payable in lawful money of the United States of America, 
determined in accordance with the following table:

            Exercise Date
After the Close     On or Before the                   Exercise Price
of Business         Close of Business                  Per Share   
- ---------------     -----------------                  ---------------
May 13, 1993        March 14, 1994                     $35.75**
March 14, 1994      March 14, 1995                     $37.25**
March 14, 1995      March 14, 1996                     $38.75
March 14, 1996      March 14, 1997                     $40.25
March 14, 1997      March 14, 1998                     $41.75

**(expired prior to, but adjusted to reflect, stock distribution paid 
June 16, 1995)

Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Warrant 
Agreement referred to on the reverse hereof, this Warrant may be exercised 
upon surrender of this Warrant Certificate and payment of the aggregate 
Exercise Price at the office or agency of the Warrant Agent in New York, 
New York or in Chicago, Illinois (each such office, a "Warrant Agent Office").
     The Exercise Price and the number of Shares purchasable upon exercise of 
this Warrant are subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain events 
as set forth in the Warrant Agreement.
     No Warrant may be exercised prior to May 14, 1993 or after the Close of 
Business on the Expiration Date, unless the Company exercises its option to 
extend such date.  After the Close of Business on the Expiration Date, the 
Warrants will become wholly void and of no value.

     REFERENCE IS HEREBY MADE TO THE FURTHER PROVISIONS OF THIS WARRANT 
CERTIFICATE SET FORTH ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.  SUCH FURTHER PROVISIONS SHALL 
FOR ALL PURPOSES HAVE THE SAME EFFECT AS THOUGH FULLY SET FORTH AT THIS PLACE.

     This Warrant Certificate shall not be valid unless countersigned by the 
Warrant Agent.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be executed
by its duly authorized officers, and the corporate seal hereunto affixed.
     Dated:  ________________
                                                 INTEL CORPORATION
                                                 By ___________________________

[Corporate Seal of Intel Corporation]

ATTEST:

By __________________________________

Countersigned:

HARRIS TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK,
AS WARRANT AGENT

By __________________________________


[FORM OF REVERSE OF WARRANT CERTIFICATE]
INTEL CORPORATION
The warrant evidenced by this warrant certificate is a part of a duly 
authorized issue of 1998 Step-Up Warrants to purchase a maximum of forty 
million (40,000,000) Shares of Common Stock (subject to adjustment) issued 
pursuant to a Warrant Agreement, dated as of March 1, 1993, as the same has 
and may be amended from time to time (the "Warrant Agreement"), duly executed 
and delivered by the Company to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Warrant 
Agent (the "Warrant Agent").  The Warrant Agreement hereby is incorporated by 
reference in and made a part of this instrument and is hereby referred to for a
description of the rights, limitation of rights, obligations, duties and 
immunities thereunder of the Warrant Agent, the Company and the holders (the 
words "holders" or "holder" meaning the registered holders or registered 
holder) of the Warrants.  A copy of the Warrant Agreement may be inspected at 
the Warrant Agent Office and is available upon written request addressed to 
the Company.  All terms used herein that are defined in the Warrant Agreement 
have the meanings assigned to them therein.
     Warrants may be exercised to purchase Shares from the Company before the 
Close of Business on the Expiration Date, at the Exercise Price set forth on 
the face hereof, subject to adjustment as described in the Warrant Agreement.  
The holder of the Warrant evidenced by this Warrant Certificate may exercise 
such Warrant by surrendering the Warrant Certificate, with the form of election
to purchase set forth hereon properly completed and executed, together with 
payment of the aggregate Exercise Price, in lawful money of the United States 
of America, and any applicable transfer taxes, at the Warrant Agent Office.
     In the event that upon any exercise of the Warrant evidenced hereby the 
number of Shares actually purchased shall be less than the total number of 
Shares purchasable upon exercise of the Warrant evidenced hereby, there shall 
be issued to the holder hereof, or such holder's assignee, a new Warrant 
Certificate evidencing a Warrant to purchase the Shares not so purchased.  No 
adjustment shall be made for any cash dividends on any Shares issuable upon 
exercise of this Warrant.  After the Close of Business on the Expiration Date, 
unexercised Warrants shall become wholly void and of no value.
     The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Shares or any 
certificates that evidence fractional Shares.  In lieu of such fractional 
Shares, there shall be paid to holders of the Warrant Certificates with regard 
to which such fractional Shares would otherwise be issuable an amount in cash 
equal to the same fraction of the current market value (as determined pursuant 
to the Warrant Agreement) of a full Share.
     Warrant Certificates, when surrendered at the Warrant Agent Office by the 
registered holder thereof in person or by a legal representative or attorney 
duly authorized in writing, may be exchanged, in the manner and subject to the 
limitations provided in the Warrant Agreement, but without payment of any 
service charge, for another Warrant Certificate or Warrant Certificates of like
tenor evidencing a Warrant to purchase in the aggregate a like number of Shares.
     Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Warrant 
Certificate at the Warrant Agent Office, a new Warrant Certificate or Warrant 
Certificates of like tenor and evidencing a Warrant or Warrants to purchase in 
the aggregate a like number of Shares shall be issued to the transferee in 
exchange for this Warrant Certificate, subject to the limitations provided in 
the Warrant Agreement, without charge, except for any tax or other 
governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
     The Company and Warrant Agent may deem and treat the registered holder 
hereof as the absolute owner of this Warrant Certificate (notwithstanding any 
notation of ownership or other writing hereon made by anyone) for the purpose 
of any exercise hereof and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor 
the Warrant Agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.


ELECTION TO EXERCISE
(TO BE EXECUTED UPON EXERCISE OF THE WARRANT)
     The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise the right, 
represented by this Warrant Certificate, to purchase _______ Shares and 
herewith tenders in payment for such Shares $______ in lawful money of the 
United States of America, in accordance with the terms hereof.  The undersigned
requests that a certificate representing such Shares be registered and 
delivered as follows:

           ___________________________________________________
                                 Name
           ___________________________________________________
                                Address
           ___________________________________________________
                     Delivery Address (if different)

If such number of Shares is less than the aggregate number of Shares 
purchasable hereunder, the undersigned requests that a new Warrant Certificate 
representing the balance of such Shares be registered and delivered as follows:

           ___________________________________________________
                                 Name
           ___________________________________________________
                                Address
           ___________________________________________________
                     Delivery Address (if different)

_________________________________             _________________________________
Social Security or Other Taxpayer                         Signature
 Identification Number of Holder
                                              Note:  The above signature must 
                                              correspond with the name as 
                                              written upon the face of this 
                                              Warrant Certificate in every 
                                              particular, without alteration or
                                              enlargement or any change what-
                                              soever.  If the certificate 
                                              representing the Shares or any 
                                              Warrant Certificate representing 
                                              Warrants not exercised is to be 
                                              registered in a name other than 
                                              that in which this Warrant 
                                              Certificate is registered, the 
                                              signature of the holder hereof 
                                              must be guaranteed.

SIGNATURE GUARANTEED:
_________________________________



ASSIGNMENT
(TO BE EXECUTED BY THE REGISTERED HOLDER IF SUCH
HOLDER DESIRES TO TRANSFER THE WARRANT CERTIFICATE)
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,  the undersigned registered holder hereby sells, assigns 
and transfers unto

           ___________________________________________________
                            Name of Assignee

           ___________________________________________________
                          Address of Assignee

this Warrant Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, 
and does irrevocably constitute and appoint ____________________ attorney, to 
transfer the within Warrant Certificate on the books of the Warrant Agent, with
full power of substitution.

_________________________________             _________________________________
             Dated                                        Signature

                                              Note:  The above signature must 
                                              correspond with the name as 
                                              written upon the face of this 
                                              Warrant Certificate in every 
                                              particular, without alteration or
                                              enlargement or any change 
                                              whatsoever.

_________________________________
Social Security or Other Taxpayer
Identification Number of Assignee


SIGNATURE GUARANTEED:
_________________________________

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
