-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ZfNWCuB8Ji9Izk9QDT4kq+s+eM3Hu6cHWVnRMmmgxTXwsT9EO5HWzQCQ3p3Rexk5
 kgOkzDMb6SjQ9ufLprQfUA==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000050863-95-000004.txt : 19950712<IMS-HEADER>0000050863-95-000004.hdr.sgml : 19950711
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000050863-95-000004
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19941231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950328
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTEL CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000050863
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				941672743
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-06217
		FILM NUMBER:		95523692

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95052
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4087658080

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2200 MISSION COLLEGE BLVD
		STREET 2:		RN6-27
		CITY:			SANTA CLARA
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95052-8119
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>

PAGE 1
===============================================================================
                                UNITED STATES
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
[X]  Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
     Act of 1934 (Fee Required) For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, OR

[ ]  Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
     Exchange Act of 1934 (No Fee Required) For the transition period 
     from____to____

Commission File Number 0-6217

                              INTEL CORPORATION
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
               Delaware                                    94-1672743
   (State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
    incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)

     2200 Mission College Boulevard, Santa Clara, California, 95052-8119
             (Address of principal executive offices, Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 765-8080

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class                             Name of each exchange on
                                                         which registered
                                      NONE

            Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                         Common Stock, $.001 par value
                1998 Step-Up Warrants to Purchase Common Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES__X__NO_____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the 
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to 
this Form 10-K. [X]

                  Aggregate market value of voting stock held
          by non affiliates of the registrant as of February 25, 1995

                                 $30.43 billion

   414.5 million shares of Common Stock outstanding as of February 25, 1995

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)     Portions of Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended 
        December 31, 1994-Items  5, 6, 7, 8 and 14.
(2)     Portions of Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1995 -Items 10, 11, 12, 
        and 13.
===============================================================================



PAGE 2
                                   PART I
                                   ------
ITEM 1. BUSINESS

INDUSTRY

Intel Corporation and its subsidiaries (collectively called "Intel," the 
"Company" or the "Registrant") operate in one dominant industry segment. The 
Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets microcomputer components 
and related products at various levels of integration.

Intel components consist of silicon-based semiconductors etched with complex
patterns of transistors. Each one of these integrated circuits (ICs) can 
perform the functions of thousands--even millions--of individual transistors, 
diodes, capacitors and resistors.


PRODUCTS

Intel's product strategy is twofold: the Company offers OEMs (original 
equipment manufacturers) a wide range of PC (personal computer) building-block
products to meet their needs, and offers PC users products that expand the 
capabilities of their systems and networks.

The Company's major products include microprocessors, chipsets, embedded 
processors and microcontrollers, flash memory chips, computer modules and 
boards, network and communications products, personal conferencing products and
scalable parallel processing computers.

MICROPROCESSORS. A microprocessor is the central processing unit of a PC. It 
processes system data and controls other devices in the system, acting as the 
brains of a PC. Intel's 32-bit processors include the flagship Pentium(R)
processor family and the Intel486(TM) microprocessor family. Pentium processors
are the latest extension of an architecture that is pervasive worldwide; the 
market research firm Dataquest estimates that approximately 134 million PCs 
based on the Intel architecture are currently in use (compared to fewer than 20 
million PCs based on other architectures). The Company's strategy is to develop
products in the Intel architecture family that are compatible with the 
installed base of software applications.

Intel's developments in the art of semiconductor design and manufacturing have 
made it possible to decrease the feature size of circuits etched into silicon.
This permits a greater number of transistors to be fit on each silicon wafer,
resulting in microprocessors that are smaller, faster running, more energy 
efficient, and less expensive to make. These developments have also led to 
increasingly complex designs. Despite rigorous testing standards, the Company
cannot give assurances that any particular design will be flawless.

The Pentium processor family, fully binary compatible with previous generations
of the Intel architecture, was introduced in 1993 with 60- and 66-MHz versions
In 1994 Intel extended the family with 3.3V 75-, 90- and 100-MHz Pentium 
processors with enhanced power management features and performance of up to 166
MIPS.  These processors have enabled a broad variety of mainstream mobile, 
desktop, and server systems based on the Pentium processor, and the PC market 
is transitioning rapidly to Pentium processor-based systems.  Intel sells its 
microprocessor products, including Pentium processors, at various levels of 
integration (chips, boards, systems and modules) depending on the OEM's 
requirements (see "Computer Modules and Boards").  Intel expects to introduce
higher performance versions of the Pentium processor in 1995.

In early 1995, Intel previewed its sixth-generation processor, codenamed the 
P6, at the International Solid State Circuits Conference.  The 5.5-million-
transistor P6, initially operating at 133 MHz, is projected to deliver 
approximately two times the performance of the 100-MHz Pentium processor while
maintaining binary software compatibility with previous generations of the 
Intel architecture.  P6 technology is expected to deliver workstation 
performance on the desktop while also enabling a new generation of 
multiprocessor servers. Systems based on the P6 processor are expected to be 
available in the second half of 1995.



PAGE 3
Within the Intel486 microprocessor product family, certain designations such as
SX, DX, DX2 and DX4 differentiate the processors from one another. SX, DX and 
DX2 are used to designate the earlier generations of the family. Introduced
in 1994, the IntelDX4(TM) processor, the fastest member of the Intel486 
microprocessor family, is popular in both entry-level home and business desktop
systems and in mobile computers.  The IntelDX4 processor family offers up to 50
percent more performance than the 66-MHz IntelDX2(TM) microprocessor.

The OverDrive(R) family of processors provides CPU performance enhancements to 
Intel486 and Pentium processor-based systems. In early 1995, Intel introduced
the Pentium OverDrive processor technology to Intel486 microprocessor-based 
systems.

Sales of the Intel486 microprocessor family comprised a majority of the 
Company's revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin in 1992, 
1993 and 1994.  A significant and growing portion of the Company's sales 
and margins were derived from sales of the Pentium processor family in 1994.  
As part of its strategic goal to double processor performance at major system 
price points, the Company cut microprocessor prices aggressively and 
systematically in 1994, and this trend may continue in 1995. Future distortion 
of price maturity curves could occur as imitation products enter the market 
in significant volume or alternative architectures gain market acceptance. 

The outlook for Pentium processor shipments in 1995 is dependent on several 
business factors, including the manufacturing ramp and market demand. The 
Pentium processor family comprised 23% of the Company's microprocessor unit 
shipments to the desktop market segment in the fourth quarter of 1994. If 
current trends continue, quarterly unit volumes of the Pentium processor family
could surpass those of the Intel486 microprocessor family during 1995.

CHIPSETS. Based on the industry accepted PCI bus, the Company's core logic 
chipsets support and extend the graphic and other capabilities of Intel486 and 
Pentium processors. Early in 1995, Intel introduced the Triton chipset, a 
third-generation Pentium processor chipset targeted at 75-, 90- and 100-MHz 
systems.

EMBEDDED PRODUCTS. Embedded chips provide the computing power in devices other
than PCs and workstations. Embedded products are dedicated to specific 
application functions and are found in wireless communications, printers, 
copiers, fax machines, VCRs, cable converter boxes and other TV equipment, 
commercial and military avionics, medical instrumentation, and factory 
automation control products.

Intel's embedded product line consists of 32-bit processors, including the 
i960(R) processor family, which are the best selling RISC (reduced instruction 
set computing) chips in the world in terms of units sold (according to 
Dataquest); embedded Intel386(TM) processors that primarily use the DOS 
operating system; the 80C186 microprocessor family; 16-bit microcontrollers, 
such as the 8096 and the 80C196; and 8-bit microcontrollers, such as the MCS(R)
51 microcontroller family. The Company introduced several embedded processor 
products in 1994, including the 80960JX family and the 80C196NP 16-bit 
microcontroller.

FLASH MEMORY CHIPS. Memory components are used to store computer programs and 
data entered by users. Flash memories are nonvolatile and do not require 
power to retain information.

Intel supplies a broad line of flash memory components that are used across a 
broad range of applications, including BIOS storage in many personal computers,
printers and networking devices, medical instrumentation and industrial 
controllers.

In 1994, Intel introduced SmartVoltage memories, providing users with increased
flexibility in optimizing their systems for lower power consumption and higher
performance. Manufacturers of wireless communications devices, handheld 
terminals and other battery-operated devices have seen improved systems value 
from these chips.  The Company also introduced the 16 Mbit Flash RAM chip 
enabling non volatile, updatable memory for embedded code storage plus the 
industry's highest speed execution.  This product enabled many system designers
to replace two kinds of memory--DRAM and ROM--with one: Flash RAM.



PAGE 4
COMPUTER MODULES AND BOARDS.  Hundreds of microcomputer platforms and single-
board computers based on Intel components are now widely accepted as basic 
building blocks for technical and commercial applications. Many OEMs build 
their own PCs, microcomputers, real-time control systems and other products 
based on these modules.  

A significant portion of Intel's Pentium processors are sold at higher levels 
of integration incorporated into boards, systems and modules to OEMs. OEM 
customers buy at these levels of integration to accelerate the time to get 
their products to market. With the growth of the Pentium processor business, 
Intel has become one of the largest manufacturers of populated PC motherboards.

The Company cannot always predict the level of integration at which customers 
will request microprocessor products. In addition, the manufacture of boards 
and systems requires DRAMs and other components that may be in short supply.  
Although the Company has entered into supply agreements with manufacturers of 
these components, there can be no assurances of adequate supply.

NETWORK AND COMMUNICATIONS PRODUCTS.  Sold to PC users through retail channels,
these hardware and software products improve the performance or capabilities of
PC systems and networks.

Intel's networking products are designed to make PC networks easier for LAN 
administrators to install and manage. The architecture that delivers this 
management capability is called Smart Network Services.

Intel's networking products consist of LAN products, such as the 
EtherExpress family of adapters; and network management products, including
the LANDesk(R) product line.

Supporting the Smart Network Services strategy are new or upgraded LAN 
products: EtherExpress(TM) Pro adapters that use flash memory for one-step 
installation and configuration; EtherExpress Pro/100, a 100 MB ethernet adapter 
that supports the new 100 MB standard 100-based T; StorageExpress(TM) back up 
servers;  NETSatisFAXtion(R) software; NetportExpress(TM) print servers; and 
LANDeskManager Suite V. 2.0 software, which combines management of desktop 
systems, servers, wire segments and services on LANs.

PERSONAL CONFERENCING PRODUCTS. PC users can install Intel software and cards 
that let two users view and manipulate the same documents simultaneously and, 
in some cases, see each other. Personal conferencing products merge the power 
of the PC with the real-time immediacy of the telephone.  In 1994, Intel
introduced its ProShare(TM) personal conferencing products, including the 
ProShare Video System 200 and ProShare Video System 150, which were certified 
in 22 countries. During 1994, these products were updated to provide the 
following enhancements: ISDN and LAN transfer support, increased video quality
and expanded serviceability.

SCALABLE PARALLEL PROCESSING SYSTEMS.  Scalable parallel processing (SPP) 
systems use the processing power of multiple microprocessors working 
simultaneously to solve large-scale computing, data and image manipulation 
problems.  Intel offers SPP systems for both commercial and technical market 
segments.  For the enterprise computing and interactive multimedia market 
segments, Intel architecture-based server building blocks and platforms are 
offered through OEMs.  For the supercomputer market segment, the Paragon( 
MP XP/S massively parallel supercomputer is scalable from compute-intensive 
embedded applications to systems with over 1,000 i860(R) XR multiprocessor 
compute nodes. In 1994, a linked system based on two Intel Paragon XP/S 140 
supercomputers beat the existing world record for computing performance by more
than 50 percent.



PAGE 5
MANUFACTURING

A majority of the Company's wafer production and some assembly and final 
testing of VLSI (very large scale integration) components are conducted at 
domestic Intel facilities in Chandler, Arizona; Aloha, Oregon; Santa Clara and 
Folsom, California; and Rio Rancho, New Mexico.  A majority of Intel's 
production of microcomputers and memory boards and systems takes place at 
facilities in Hillsboro, Oregon and Las Piedras, Puerto Rico.

Outside the United States, a significant portion of Intel's VLSI wafer 
production, including some microprocessor fabrication, is conducted at plants 
in Jerusalem, Israel and Leixlip, Ireland.  A significant portion of Pentium 
processor production is conducted at the Ireland site.  Most of the Company's 
VLSI component assembly and testing is performed at facilities in Penang, 
Malaysia and Manila, Philippines.  A significant and growing portion of Intel's
production of microcomputers and memory boards and systems is conducted at
facilities in Leixlip, Ireland, and Penang, Malaysia.

In general, if Intel were unable to assemble, test or perform wafer fabrication
on its products abroad, or if air transportation between its foreign facilities
and the United States were disrupted, there could be a materially adverse 
effect upon the Company's operations.  In addition to normal manufacturing 
risks, foreign operations are subject to certain additional exposures, 
including political instability, currency controls and fluctuations, and tariff
and import restrictions.  To date, Intel has not experienced significant 
difficulties related to these foreign business risks.

To augment capacity, Intel uses subcontractors to perform assembly of certain 
products and wafer fabrication for certain VLSI components, primarily flash 
memory and chipsets.  The Company cannot give assurances that it will be able 
to fully satisfy demand for certain of these products.

The manufacture of integrated circuits is a complex process.  Normal 
manufacturing risks include errors in the fabrication process, defects in raw 
materials, as well as other factors, all of which can affect yields.


EMPLOYEES

At December 31, 1994, the Company employed approximately 32,600 people 
worldwide.


SALES

Most of Intel's products are sold or licensed through sales offices located 
near major concentrations of users throughout the United States, Europe, Japan,
Asia-Pacific and other parts of the world.  

The Company also uses distributors (industrial and retail) and representatives 
to distribute its products both in the United States and overseas.  Typically,
distributors handle a wide variety of products, including those competitive 
with Intel products, and fill orders for many customers.  Most of Intel's sales
to distributors are made under agreements allowing for price protection and/or
the right of return on unsold merchandise.  Sales representatives generally do 
not offer directly competitive products, but may carry complementary items 
manufactured by others.  Representatives do not maintain a product inventory; 
instead, their customers place large quantity orders directly with Intel and 
are referred to distributors for smaller orders.  Intel sold products to 
thousands of customers worldwide in 1994, none of which represented more than 
10% of total revenues.



PAGE 6
BACKLOG

Intel's sales are made primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for 
delivery of standard products.  Intel has some agreements that give a customer 
the right to purchase a specific number of products during a time period.  
Although not generally obligating the customer to purchase any particular 
number of such products, some of these agreements do contain billback clauses. 
As a matter of industry practice, billback clauses are difficult to enforce.  
The quantity actually purchased by the customer, as well as the shipment 
schedules, are frequently revised during the agreement term to reflect changes 
in the customer's needs.  In light of industry practice and experience, Intel 
does not believe that such agreements are meaningful for determining backlog 
figures.  Intel believes that only a small proportion of its order backlog is 
noncancellable and that the dollar amount associated with the noncancellable 
portion is immaterial.  Therefore, Intel does not believe that backlog as of 
any particular date is necessarily indicative of future results.


COMPETITION

The Company competes in different product lines to various degrees on the basis
of price, performance, availability and quality.  Many companies compete with 
Intel and are engaged in the same basic fields of activity, including research 
and development.  Both foreign and domestic, these competitors range in size 
from large multinationals to smaller companies competing in specialized market 
segments.  Intel is engaged in a rapidly advancing field of technology in which
its ability to compete depends upon the continuing improvement of its products 
and processes, continuing cost reductions, and the development of new products 
to meet changing customer requirements.

Prices decline rapidly in the semiconductor industry as unit volume grows, as 
competition develops, and as production experience is accumulated.  In the 
microcomputer and board and systems area, Intel competes with board 
manufacturers and microprocessor-based computer manufacturers.  Some of these 
competitors are also Intel customers.

A number of competitors have developed products that imitate some of the 
Company's key products.  Some of these products obtained market acceptance and 
Intel's revenues and margins with respect to certain of these products were 
adversely affected and may continue to be adversely affected.  Based on the 
current case law, Intel's competitors can design microprocessors which are 
compatible with Intel microprocessors and avoid Intel patent rights through the
use of foundry services that have licenses with Intel.  Furthermore, as part of
a recent settlement between Intel and AMD to settle all outstanding legal 
disputes between the two companies, Intel licensed AMD to copy the microcode in
the Intel386 and Intel486 microprocessors.  However, AMD agreed that it has no 
right to copy the microcode in the Pentium processor and future 
microprocessors.  The net effect of this situation (i.e., case law and the AMD 
settlement) is that while it is possible for competitors to imitate the 
functionality of Intel processors, future imitations are not expected to be as 
close an imitation as were the Am386* and Am486* products from AMD.  
Competitors' products may add features and increase performance.  The Company 
also faces significant competition from companies that offer rival 
microprocessor architectures.  The Company cannot predict whether such rival 
architectures will gain market acceptance or provide increased competition to 
the Company's products.  Future distortion of price maturity curves could occur
as imitation products enter the market in significant volume or alternative 
architectures gain market acceptance.

It continues to be Intel's strategy to maintain its competitive advantage 
through aggressive investments in manufacturing capacity and the development 
and marketing of advanced products which provide greater functionality to its 
customers than is provided by competitive products.  Intel also is committed to
the protection of its intellectual property rights against illegal use.  There 
can be no assurance, however, that competitors will not introduce new products 
(either imitative or of rival architectural designs) or reduce prices on 
existing products.  Such developments could have an adverse effect on Intel's 
revenues and margins.

________________________
* Other brands and names are the property of their respective owners


PAGE 7
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company's competitive position has developed to a large extent because of 
its emphasis upon research and development.  This emphasis has enabled Intel to
deliver products before they have become available from competitors, and thus 
has permitted Intel's customers to commit to the use of these new products in 
the development of their own products.  Intel's research and development 
activities are directed toward developing new products, hardware technologies 
and processes and improving existing products and lowering their cost.  The 
Company also develops "enabling" software, such as open software 
specifications and software tools, to enhance the functionality and acceptance
of the personal computer platform Intel's expenditures for research and 
development were $1,111 million, $970 million and $780 million in fiscal years 
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.  As of December 31, 1994, Intel had 
approximately 6,400 employees engaged in research and development.  The results
of Intel's research and development activities depend upon competitive 
circumstances and Intel's ability to transfer new products to production in a 
timely and cost-effective manner.

Most design and development of VLSI components and other products is performed 
at Intel's facilities in Santa Clara and Folsom, California; Aloha and 
Hillsboro, Oregon; Chandler, Arizona; and Haifa, Israel.

In June 1994, Intel and Hewlett-Packard Company announced a joint research and 
development project covering a wide range of activities, including 
semiconductor processes, software optimization and microprocessor design 
technologies. New 64-bit processors based on the jointly developed architecture
are expected to be initially targeted at server, workstation and enterprise 
computing products, probably in the late 1990's.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING

Intellectual property rights which apply to various Intel products include 
patents, copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks and maskwork rights.  Because of
the rapidly changing technology and a broad distribution of patents in the 
semiconductor industry, Intel's present intention is not to rely primarily on 
intellectual property rights to protect or establish its market position.  
However, Intel has established an active program to protect its investment in 
technology by enforcing all of its intellectual property rights.  Intel does 
not intend to broadly license its intellectual property rights unless it can 
obtain adequate consideration.  Reference is also made to the headings 
"Competition," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations."

Intel has filed and obtained a number of patents in the United States and 
abroad.  Intel has entered into patent cross license agreements with many of 
its major competitors.

Intel protects many of its computer programs by copyrighting them.  Intel has 
registered numerous copyrights with the United States Copyright Office.  The 
ability to protect or to copyright software in some foreign jurisdictions is 
not clear.  However, Intel has a policy of requiring customers to sign a 
software license contract before providing a customer with certain computer 
programs.  Certain VLSI components have computer programs embedded in them, and
Intel has obtained copyright protection for some of these programs as well. 
Beginning in 1985, Intel has obtained protection for the maskworks for a number
of its components under the Chip Protection Act of 1984.

Intel has obtained certain trademarks and trade names for its products to 
distinguish genuine Intel products from those of its competitors and is 
currently engaged in a cooperative program with OEMs to identify personal 
computers that incorporate genuine Intel microprocessors with the Intel 
Inside(R) logo.  Intel maintains certain details about its processes, products 
and strategies as trade secrets.

As is the case with many companies in the semiconductor industry, Intel has, 
from time to time, been notified of claims that it may be infringing certain 
patent rights of others.  These claims have been referred to counsel and they 
are in various stages of evaluation and negotiation.  If it appears necessary 
or desirable, Intel may seek licenses for these intellectual property rights.  
Intel can give no assurance that licenses will be offered by all claimants or 
that the terms of any offered licenses will be acceptable to Intel or that in 
all cases the dispute will be resolved without litigation.

PAGE 8
COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

To Intel's present knowledge, compliance with federal, state and local 
provisions enacted or adopted for protection of the environment has had no 
material effect upon its operations.  However, reference is made to Item 3., 
Legal Proceedings, of this Form 10-K.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

The following sets forth certain information with regard to executive officers 
of Intel (ages are as of December 31, 1994):

Craig R. Barrett (age 55) has been Chief Operating Officer since 1993; a 
director of Intel Corporation since 1992;  Executive Vice President since 
1992; and Vice President and General Manager of the Microcomputer Components 
Group from 1989 to 1992.

Andrew S. Grove (age 58) has been a director of Intel Corporation since 1974; 
President since 1979; and Chief Executive Officer since 1987.

Gordon E. Moore (age 66) has been a director of Intel Corporation since 1968 
and Chairman of the Board since 1979.

Leslie L. Vadasz (age 58) has been a director of Intel Corporation since 1988; 
Senior Vice President, Director of Corporate Business Development since 1991; 
and Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Systems Group from 1986 to
1990.

Frank C. Gill (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Intel Products Group since 1991; Senior Vice President and President of the 
Systems Group from 1990 to 1991; and Senior Vice President and Director of 
Sales from 1989 to 1990.

David L. House (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and Director, Corporate 
Strategy since 1991; Senior Vice President and President of Microcomputer 
Components Group from 1990 to 1991; and Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Microcomputer Components Group from 1987 to 1990.

Paul S. Otellini (age 44) has been Senior Vice President, Director, Sales since
May 1994; Senior Vice President and General Manager, Microprocessor Products 
Group, from 1993 to 1994; Vice President and General Manager, Microprocessor 
Products Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and General Manager, Micro 
Products Group from 1990 to 1991; and Vice President and Assistant to the 
President from 1989 to 1990.

Gerhard H. Parker (age 51) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Technology & Manufacturing Group, since 1992; Vice President and Director, 
Technology & Manufacturing Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and 
Director, Technology Group from 1990 to 1991; Vice President and General 
Manager, Technology and Manufacturing Group during 1990; and Vice President and
General Manager, Component Technology and Development Group from 1989 to 1990.


PAGE 9
Robert W. Reed (age 48) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Semiconductor Products Group, since 1991; Senior Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer from 1990 to 1991; and Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Director of Administration from 1989 to 1990.

Ronald J. Whittier (age 58) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager,
Intel Architecture Laboratories, since January 1993; Vice President and General
Manager, Software Technology Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and 
Director of Marketing from 1990 to 1991; and Vice President and Director of 
Corporate Marketing from 1985 to 1990.

Albert Y.C. Yu (age 53) has been Senior Vice President and General Manager, 
Microprocessor Products Group since January 1993; Vice President and General 
Manager, Microprocessor Products Group from 1991 to 1992; Vice President and 
General Manager, Micro Products Group from 1990 to 1991; and Vice President and
General Manager, Component Technology and Development Group from 1989 to 1990. 

Michael A. Aymar (age 47) has been Vice President and General Manager, 
Intel486(TM) Microprocessor Division, since January 1994; Vice President and 
General Manager, Mobile Computing Group, from 1991 to 1994; and Vice President 
and General Manager, Santa Clara Microcomputer Division from 1989 to 1991.
Andy D. Bryant (age 44) has been Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
since February 1994; Vice President, Intel Products Group from 1990 to 1994; 
and Director of Finance from 1987 to 1990.

F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr. (age 43) has been Vice President, General Counsel and 
Secretary since 1987.

G. Carl Everett, Jr. (age 44) has been Senior Vice President and General 
Manager, Microprocessor Products Group since May 1994; Vice President and 
Director, Worldwide Sales Group from 1990 to 1994; Vice President and Director 
of North American Sales during 1990; and Vice President, Sales and Marketing 
Group from 1987 to 1990.

Stephen P. Nachtsheim (age 50) has been Vice President and General Manager, 
Mobile and Home Products Group since January 1995.  Prior to that time, from 
January 1994 to January 1995, he was an appointed vice president of the same 
group.  He held the positions of General Manager of European Intel Products 
Group from 1992 to 1994; General Manager of ASIC from 1990 to 1992; and General
Manager of Intel Europe from 1988 to 1990.



PAGE 10
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

At December 31, 1994, Intel owned the major facilities described below:
<TABLE>
No. of 
Bldgs.    Location            Total Sq. Ft.    Use
<S>       <C>                 <C>              <C>
46        United States (A)   8,739,000        Executive and administrative offices, 
                                               wafer fabrication, components testing 
                                               and assembly, research and development,
                                               computer and service functions, system 
                                               assembly and warehousing.

2         Ireland               745,000        Wafer fabrication, system and board 
                                               assembly, and administrative offices.

6         Malaysia (B)          531,000        Components assembly and testing and 
                                               administrative offices.

4         Israel                379,000        Wafer fabrication, design center, sales 
                                               office and related support functions.

4         Puerto Rico           292,000        Systems manufacturing, board assembly, 
                                               warehousing and administration.

3         England               184,000        European sales, marketing, warehousing 
                                               and related support functions.

3         Japan                 167,000        Sales, warehousing and related support 
                                               functions.

1         Philippines (C)       131,000        Components assembly and testing and 
                                               administrative offices.

1         Germany                86,000        European marketing, German sales and 
                                               administrative offices.

1         France (D)             63,000        French sales and administrative offices.

</TABLE>
At December 31, 1994, Intel also leased 21 major facilities in the U.S. 
totaling approximately 609,000 square feet and 11 facilities in other countries
totaling approximately 246,000 square feet.  These leases expire at varying 
dates through 2002, including renewals at the option of Intel.

Intel believes that its existing facilities are suitable and adequate, and the 
productive capacity in such facilities is in general being utilized.  Intel has
other facilities available that it can equip to meet future demand as such 
demand materializes.  These include 4.5 million square feet of building space 
under various stages of construction in the United States and abroad for 
manufacturing and administrative purposes.


_________________________
(A)     Includes an idle, 131,000-square-foot facility formerly utilized for 
        wafer fabrication and administration, which is currently for sale.
(B)     The lease on a portion of the land used for these facilities expires 
        in 2032.
(C)     Leases on land expire in 1998, 2002 and 2008.
(D)     This facility is currently for sale.




PAGE 11
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

A. LITIGATION

                   Intel vs. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD")
         U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
              (C90-20237) - Intel287 Copyright Infringement Suit
         -----------------------------------------------------------

In a letter dated March 23, 1990 from AMD, AMD asserted a right to copy and 
distribute Intel-copyrighted microcode in an AMD 80C287 math coprocessor.  
In response to the letter, Intel filed a suit on April 23, 1990 in the U.S. 
District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that AMD 
infringed Intel's copyright on the microcode for the Intel287(TM) math 
coprocessor.  In its defense, AMD claimed a license to copy and distribute 
Intel copyrighted microcode based on a clause in a 1976 patent cross-license 
agreement which gives AMD the right "...to copy microcodes contained in Intel 
microcomputers and peripheral products sold by Intel."

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.  AMD has agreed to abide by 
the terms of the preliminary injunction entered August 7, 1990, and Intel has 
granted AMD a license to Intel code contained in Intel287, Intel386 and 
Intel486 microprocessors.  AMD has agreed that it has no right to copy the 
microcode in the Pentium processor and future microprocessors.  


                   Intel vs. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD")
         U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
              (C92-20039) - Intel386 Copyright Infringement Suit
         -----------------------------------------------------------

On October 9, 1991, Intel filed another copyright infringement suit against 
AMD, alleging that AMD copied the Intel386 microcode and a control program 
which is stored in a programmable logic array.

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.


                    Intel vs. Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD")
           U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
              (C93-20301) - Intel486 Copyright Infringement Suit
         ----------------------------------------------------------

On April 28, 1993, the Company filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for
the Northern District of California covering numerous copyright infringement 
claims on AMD's versions of Intel486 microprocessors.

On October 11, 1994, Judge Trumbull ruled that AMD is not licensed to copy or 
distribute the Company's 486 ICE(TM) system microcode, and entered an 
injunction which prohibits AMD from shipping Am486s which contain the Company's
486 ICE system microcode after January 15, 1995.

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.  The 486 ICE system microcode
injunction will remain in effect, and AMD agreed to pay Intel $58 million as 
settlement for past damages for its 486 ICE system microcode infringement.  
As part of the settlement, AMD will have the right to use foundries for up to 
20% of its Am486 production.


PAGE 12
          Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. ("AMD") vs. Intel Corporation
         U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California
                         (C91-20541) - Antitrust Suit
         -----------------------------------------------------------

On August 29, 1991, AMD filed a lawsuit against Intel in the U.S. District 
Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that Intel violated the
Sherman Act by committing unlawful acts and conspiring with customers and 
distributors to secure and maintain monopoly positions in microprocessor and 
math coprocessor markets.

On January 11, 1995, in connection with the settlement of various legal matters
between the two companies, the parties agreed to dismiss all claims, 
counterclaims and defenses raised in this action. 

                       Consumer Class Action Suits
                       ---------------------------
          Machtinger vs. Intel, Cook Co. Circuit Court, IL (94-C-7300)
     Anthony Uzzo & Co. vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745729)
    Liberty Bell Equip. vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745803)
          Sloane vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745876)
          Klein vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745895)
          Scalzo vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV745924)
                 Rep. Electronic Products vs. Intel and Dell,
                   Wayne Co. Circuit Court, MI (94-435132CK)
          Fingold vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746031)
        Lees et al vs. Intel, Camden Co. Superior Court, NJ (L 11508 94)
        Kurtz, Orman vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746116)
      Data Technology Services vs. Intel, U.S.D.C., Dist. of CO (94-N-2886)
          Carney vs. Intel, Santa Clara Co. Superior Court (CV746128)
          -----------------------------------------------------------

During the period from November 29, 1994 through December 19, 1994, numerous 
civil consumer lawsuits were filed in state courts in various states against 
the Company.  Although the complaints differ, these actions generally allege 
that Intel breached express and implied warranties, engaged in deceptive 
advertising and otherwise committed consumer fraud by shipping Pentium 
processors which contained a divide problem in the floating point unit, and by 
failing to disclose it.  The suits seek compensatory and punitive damages of 
unspecified amounts. One of the actions has since been withdrawn.  A 
Stipulation of Settlement covering all remaining pending actions was filed in 
the Santa Clara Superior Court on March 22, 1995.  Preliminary approval was 
granted by the Court on March 24, 1995.



Weisberg vs. C. Barrett, W.H. Chen, A. Grove, D.J. Guzy, G. Moore, M. Palevsky,
          A. Rock, J. Shaw, L. Vadasz, D. Yoffie, C. Young and Intel
                       Southern District, NY (C95-0674)
                       --------------------------------

On January 31, 1995, the plaintiff brought this suit in Federal Court in New 
York (Southern District) as both a derivative and stockholder action to 
invalidate the Company's Executive Officer Bonus Plan, alleging that the plan 
is so vague and misleading as to be ambiguous.  Plaintiff seeks (i) 
cancellation of the stockholders' approval of the Plan, (ii) unspecified 
damages to Intel by the Board of Directors, and (iii) to enjoin implementation 
of the Plan and the payment of any bonuses under the Plan.

Although the ultimate outcome of any outstanding claims cannot be determined 
at this time, management, including internal counsel, does not believe that the
ultimate outcome will have a material adverse effect on Intel's financial 
position or overall trends in results of operations.





PAGE 13
B. ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS

Intel has been named to the California and U.S. federal Superfund lists for 
three of its sites and has completed, along with two other companies, a 
Remedial Investigation/Feasibility study with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to evaluate the ground water in areas adjacent to its Mountain 
View, California site.  The EPA has issued a Record of Decision with respect to
a groundwater cleanup plan at that site.  Under the California and U.S. federal
Superfund statutes, liability for cleanup of the Mountain View site and 
adjacent area is joint and several.  The Company has reached agreement in 
principle with those same two companies which should significantly limit the 
Company's liabilities under the proposed cleanup plan.  Also, the Company has 
completed extensive studies at its other sites and is engaged in cleanup at 
several of these sites.  In the opinion of management, including internal 
counsel, the potential losses to the Company in excess of amounts already 
accrued arising out of these matters would not have a material adverse effect 
on the Company's financial position, even if joint and several liability were 
to be assessed.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



PAGE 14
                                 PART II
                                 -------

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
            MATTERS

    (a)     Reference is made to the information regarding market, market price
            range and dividend information appearing under "Financial 
            Information by Quarter (Unaudited)" on page 31 of the Registrant's 
            Annual Report to Stockholders which information is hereby 
            incorporated by reference. 

    (b)     As of February 25, 1995, there were 43,262 holders of record of the
            Registrant's Common Stock.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Reference is made to the information regarding selected financial data for the 
fiscal years 1990 through 1994, including the related footnotes, under the 
heading "Financial Summary" on page 28 of the Registrant's Annual Report to 
Stockholders, which information is hereby incorporated by reference.  

In addition, the ratios of earnings to fixed charges for each of the five years
in the period ended December 31, 1994 are as follows:

                              Fiscal Year
      --------------------------------------------------------
            1990      1991      1992      1993      1994

            9.2x      12.4x     20.7x     54.4x     39.5x

Fixed charges consist of interest expense and the estimated interest component 
of rent expense.




PAGE 15
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading "Management's 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" on 
pages 29 through 31 of the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders, 
which information is hereby incorporated by reference.

Subsequent to December 31, 1994, Intel repurchased 2.0 million shares of Common
Stock under the Company's authorized stock repurchase program at a cost of $150
million. The Company also sold 3.5 million put warrants, receiving proceeds of 
$16 million, while 3.0 million previously outstanding put warrants expired. As 
of March 22, 1995, the Company had the potential obligation to repurchase 13.0 
million shares of Common Stock at an aggregate price of $821 million under 
outstanding put warrants. After reserving shares to cover these outstanding put
warrants, 15.4 million shares remained available under the stock repurchase 
program authorization.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Consolidated financial statements of Intel Corporation at December 31, 1994 and
December 25, 1993 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 
31, 1994 and the Report of Independent Auditors thereon and Intel Corporation's
unaudited quarterly financial data for the two-year period ended December 31, 
1994 are incorporated by reference from the Registrant's 1994 Annual Report to 
Stockholders, on pages 14 through 31.


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.



PAGE 16
                                   PART III
                                   --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Reference is made to the information regarding Directors and Executive Officers
appearing under the headings "Election of Directors" and "Name and Principal 
Occupation" on pages 1 through 3 of the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated 
March 14, 1995, which information is hereby incorporated by reference, and to 
the information under the heading "Executive Officers" in Part I hereof.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Reference is made to the information appearing under the headings "Executive 
Compensation," "Directors' Compensation," and "Compensation Committee 
Interlocks and Insider Participation," on pages 8 through 11 of the 
Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1995, which information is hereby 
incorporated by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Reference is made to information appearing in the Registrant's Proxy Statement 
dated March 14, 1995, under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Management," on pages 13 and 14, which information is 
hereby incorporated by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Reference is made to the information appearing under the heading "Certain 
Relationships and Related Transactions" on page 14 of the Registrant's Proxy 
Statement dated March 14, 1995, which information is hereby incorporated by 
reference.



PAGE 17
                                   PART IV
                                   -------

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)   1.   Financial Statements

               The financial statements listed in the accompanying index to 
               financial statements and financial statement schedules are filed
               or incorporated by reference as part of this annual report.

          2.   Financial Statement Schedule

               The financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying 
               index to financial statements and financial statement schedules 
               is filed as part of this annual report.

          3.   Exhibits

               The exhibits listed in the accompanying index to exhibits are 
               filed or incorporated by reference as part of this annual 
               report.

    (b)        Reports on Form 8-K

               On December 21, 1994, Intel filed a report on Form 8-K relating 
               to the adoption of an upon-request replacement policy on Pentium
               processors and a then-unspecified material charge against 
               earnings to be taken in the fourth quarter of 1994.



PAGE 18
                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                       AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                 (Item 14 (a))
                                                               Reference Page
                                                               --------------
                                                                         1994
                                                                       Annual
                                                         Form       Report to
                                                         10-K    Stockholders

Consolidated Balance Sheets-
  December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .15
Consolidated Statements of Income for
  the years ended December 31, 1994, 
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  for the years ended December 31, 1994
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' 
  Equity for the years ended December 31, 1994, 
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements- 
  December 31, 1994, December 25, 1993 and 
  December 26, 1992 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18-26
Report of Independent Auditors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Supplementary Information (unaudited)
  Financial Information by Quarter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
Schedule for years ended December 31, 1994, 
  December 25, 1993 and December 26, 1992:
II- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts . . . . . . . . . . .19

Schedules other than the one listed above are omitted for the reason that they 
are not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in
the financial statements or notes thereto.

The consolidated financial statements listed in the above index which are 
included in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders are hereby incorporated
by reference.  With the exception of the pages listed in the above index and 
the portions of such report referred to in Items 5, 6, 7, and 8 of this Form 
10-K, the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders is not to be deemed filed as part 
of this report.

Page references to the 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders relate to the bound, 
printed version of the report.




PAGE 19
                            INTEL CORPORATION
                     --------------------------------
              SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

         December 26, 1992, December 25, 1993 and December 31, 1994
                              (In Millions)






                                              Additions
                                 Balance at  Charged to                 Balance
                                  Beginning   Costs and                  at End
                                    of Year    Expenses  Deductions (A) of Year
                                 ----------  ----------  -------------  -------

1992

Allowance for Doubtful Receivables      $ 9         $29            $12      $26
                                        ---         ---            ---      ---
1993

Allowance for Doubtful Receivables      $26         $ 4            $ 8      $22
                                        ---         ---            ---      ---
1994

Allowance for Doubtful Receivables      $22         $10            $--      $32
                                        ---         ---            ---      ---

(A)  Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.




PAGE 20
                            INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                              (Item 14 (a))

      Description

3.1   Intel Corporation Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 3.1 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 
      1993 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on August 10, 1993)

3.2   Intel Corporation Bylaws as amended, (incorporated by reference to 
      Exhibit 3.2 of Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 10-Q for the 
      quarter ended September 25, 1993 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on
      November 9, 1993).

4.1   Agreement to Provide Instruments Defining the Rights of Security Holders 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's Form 10-K 
      [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 28, 1986).

4.2   Indenture dated as of May 1, 1985 among Intel Overseas Corporation, Intel
      Corporation and Wachovia Bank Trust Company N.A. related to $236,500,000 
      principal amount of zero coupon notes due 1995 issued by Intel Overseas 
      Corporation and guaranteed by Intel Corporation (incorporated by 
      reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
      June 29, 1985 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on August 13, 1985).

4.3   Warrant agreement dated as of March 1, 1993, as amended between the 
      Registrant and Harris Trust and Savings Bank (as successor Warrant Agent)
      related to the issuance of 1998 Step-Up Warrants to purchase Common Stock
      of Intel Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 25,
      1993), together with the First Amendment to Warrant Agreement dated as of
      October 18, 1993 and the Second Amendment to Warrant Agreement dated as 
      of January 17, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 
      25, 1994).

10.1* Intel Corporation 1984 Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Registrant's Form 10-Q for 
      the quarter ended April 2, 1994 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on 
      May 16, 1994). 

10.2  Intel Corporation Profit-Sharing Retirement Plan dated April 20, 1990 as 
      amended and restated effective January 1, 1989 (incorporated by reference
      to Exhibit 10.3 of Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as
      filed on March 26, 1992).

10.3  Second Amendment dated March 2, 1992 to Intel Corporation Profit-Sharing 
      Retirement Plan dated April 20, 1990 as amended and restated effective 
      January 1, 1989  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 26,
      1993).

10.4  Intel Corporation Defined Benefit Pension Plan and Trust dated September 
      7, 1988 as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of 
      Registrant's Form 10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 28,
      1990).

10.5* Intel Corporation 1988 Executive Long Term Stock Option Plan as amended 
      and restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Form 10-Q for 
      the quarter ended April 2, 1994 [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on 
      May 16, 1994). 

10.6* Intel Corporation Sheltered Employee Retirement Plan Plus dated December 
      1, 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Registrant's Form 
      10-K [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 26, 1992).



PAGE 21
10.7* Intel Corporation Executive Officer Bonus Plan dated January 1, 1994 
      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of Registrant's Form 10-K 
      [Commission File No. 0-6217] as filed on March 25, 1994).

11.   Computation of Per Share Earnings.

12.   Statement Setting Forth the Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed 
      Charges.

13.   Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for fiscal year ended 
      December 31, 1994 expressly incorporated by reference herein.

21.   Intel Subsidiaries.

23.   Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.

27.   Financial Data Schedule.











* Compensation plans or arrangements in which officers and directors are 
  eligible to participate.

PAGE 22
SIGNATURESPursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Annual Report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

INTEL CORPORATION
Registrant By 
/s/ F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.
- -------------------------
F. Thomas Dunlap, Jr.   
Vice President and Secretary
March 24, 1995

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ Craig R. Barrett                           /s/ Max Palevsky
- --------------------                           ----------------
Craig R. Barrett                               Max Palevsky
Director                                       Director
March 24, 1995                                 March 24, 1995

/s/ Andy D. Bryant                             /s/ Arthur Rock
- ------------------                             ---------------
Andy D. Bryant                                 Arthur Rock
Vice President, Principal                      Director
Accounting and Chief Financial Officer         March 24, 1995
March 24, 1995
                                               /s/ Jane E. Shaw
/s/ Winston H. Chen                            ----------------
- -------------------                            Jane E. Shaw
Winston H. Chen                                Director
Director                                       March 24, 1995
March 24, 1995
                                               /s/ Leslie L. Vadasz
/s/ Andrew S. Grove                            --------------------
- -------------------                            Leslie L. Vadasz
Andrew S. Grove                                Director
Principal Executive Officer                    March 24, 1995
President and Director
March 24, 1995                                 /s/ David B. Yoffie
                                               -------------------
/s/ D. James Guzy                              David B. Yoffie
- -----------------                              Director
D. James Guzy                                  March 24, 1995
Director
March 24, 1995                                 /s/ Charles E. Young
                                               --------------------
/s/ Gordon E. Moore                            Charles E. Young
- -------------------                            Director
Gordon E. Moore                                March 24, 1995
Chairman of the Board
March 24, 1995

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 11.1
<TABLE>
                                             INTEL CORPORATION
                                     COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
                                 (In millions, except per share amounts)

                                                                   Year Ended
                                                          -----------------------------
                                                          Dec. 26,   Dec. 25,   Dec. 31,
                                                            1992       1993       1994
                                                          -------    -------    -------
<S>                                                    <C>        <C>      <C>
PRIMARY SHARES CALCULATION

Reconciliation of weighted average number
of shares outstanding to amount used in
primary earnings per share computation:

Weighted average number of shares outstanding                 414        418        415

 Add-shares issuable from assumed exercise of options
  and warrants                                                 15         23         22
                                                           ------     ------     ------

 Weighted average number of shares outstanding as
  adjusted                                                    429        441        437
                                                           ======     ======     ======

FULLY DILUTED SHARES CALCULATION

Reconciliation of weighted average number
of shares outstanding to amount used in
fully diluted earnings per share computation:

  Weighted average number of shares outstanding               414        418        415

  Add-shares issuable from assumed exercise of options
  and warrants                                                 17         23         22
                                                           ------     ------     ------

  Weighted average number of shares outstanding as 
   adjusted                                                   431        441        437
                                                           ======     ======     ======

NET INCOME                                                 $1,067     $2,295     $2,288
                                                           ======     ======     ======

PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE                                 $ 2.49     $ 5.20     $ 5.24
                                                           ======     ======     ======

FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE(1)                        $ 2.48     $ 5.20     $ 5.24
                                                           ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>
(1)     Earnings per common and common equivalent share presented on the face
of the income statement represent primary earnings per share.  Dual
presentation of primary and fully diluted earnings per share has not been
made on the face of the income statement because the differences are 
insignificant. This exhibit is presented because common stock equivalents 
represent more than 3% of weighted average common shares outstanding.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>3
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 12.1


                               INTEL CORPORATION


                    STATEMENT SETTING FORTH THE COMPUTATION
          OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES FOR INTEL CORPORATION

                            (In millions, except ratios)

<TABLE>
                                                             Years Ended
                                         ----------------------------------------------------
           
                                         Dec. 29,   Dec. 28,   Dec. 26,   Dec. 25,   Dec. 31,
                                           1990       1991       1992       1993       1994
                                         --------   --------   --------   --------   --------
<S>                                      <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Income before taxes                         $986     $1,195      $1,569     $3,530     $3,603

Add - Fixed charges net of
  capitalized interest                       117         98          68         58         73
                                          ------     ------      ------     ------     ------

Income before taxes and fixed
  charges (net of capitalized interest)   $1,103     $1,293      $1,637     $3,588     $3,676
                                          ======     ======      ======     ======     ======

Fixed charges:

Interest*                                 $   99     $   82      $   54     $   50     $   57

Capitalized interest                           3          6          11          8         27

Estimated interest component
  of rental expense                           18         16          14          8          9
                                          ------     ------      ------     ------     ------

Total                                     $  120     $  104      $   79     $   66     $   93
                                          ======     ======      ======     ======     ======


Ratio of earnings before taxes
  and fixed charges, to fixed
  charges                                   9.2x      12.4x       20.7x      54.4x      39.5x
</TABLE>



* Interest expense includes the amortization of underwriting fees for the
relevant periods outstanding.

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>4
<TEXT>

Exhibit 13
PAGE 1
                              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                             Three years ended December 31, 1994
<TABLE>
(In millions--except per share amounts)                     1994        1993        1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>         <C>
Net revenues                                             $11,521     $ 8,782     $ 5,844
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Cost of sales                                              5,576       3,252       2,557
Research and development                                   1,111         970         780
Marketing, general and administrative                      1,447       1,168       1,017
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Operating costs and expenses                               8,134       5,390       4,354
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Operating income                                           3,387       3,392       1,490
Interest expense                                             (57)        (50)        (54)
Interest income and other, net                               273         188         133
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Income before taxes                                        3,603       3,530       1,569
Provision for taxes                                        1,315       1,235         502
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Net income                                               $ 2,288     $ 2,295     $ 1,067
                                                         ========    ========    ========
Earnings per common and common equivalent share          $  5.24     $  5.20     $  2.49
                                                         ========    ========    ========
Weighted average common and common equivalent 
  shares outstanding                                         437         441         429
                                                         ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.

PAGE 2
                                    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                              December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993
<TABLE>
 (In millions--except per share amounts)                                1994        1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>         <C>
Assets
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents                                          $ 1,180     $ 1,659
  Short-term investments                                               1,230       1,477
  Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful 
    accounts of $32 ($22 in 1993)                                      1,978       1,448
  Inventories                                                          1,169         838
  Deferred tax assets                                                    552         310
  Other current assets                                                    58          70
                                                                     --------    --------
Total current assets                                                   6,167       5,802
                                                                     --------    --------
Property, plant and equipment:
  Land and buildings                                                   2,292       1,848
  Machinery and equipment                                              5,374       4,148
  Construction in progress                                               850         317
                                                                     --------    --------
                                                                       8,516       6,313
  Less accumulated depreciation                                        3,149       2,317
                                                                     --------    --------
Property, plant and equipment, net                                     5,367       3,996
                                                                     --------    --------
Long-term investments                                                  2,127       1,416
Other assets                                                             155         130
                                                                     --------    --------
  Total assets                                                       $13,816     $11,344
                                                                     ========    ========
Liabilities and stockholders' equity
Current liabilities:
  Short-term debt                                                    $   517     $   399
  Long-term debt redeemable within one year                               --          98
  Accounts payable                                                       575         427
  Deferred income on shipments to distributors                           269         200
  Accrued compensation and benefits                                      588         544
  Other accrued liabilities                                              646         374
  Income taxes payable                                                   429         391
                                                                     --------    --------
Total current liabilities                                              3,024       2,433
                                                                     --------    --------
Long-term debt                                                           392         426
Deferred tax liabilities                                                 389         297
Put warrants                                                             744         688
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
- ---------------------
  Preferred Stock, $.001 par value, 50 shares 
    authorized; none issued                                               --          --
  Common Stock, $.001 par value, 1,400 shares authorized; 
    413 issued and outstanding in 1994 (418 in 1993) and 
    capital in excess of par value                                     2,306       2,194
  Retained earnings                                                    6,961       5,306
                                                                     --------    --------
Total stockholders' equity                                             9,267       7,500
                                                                     --------    --------
  Total liabilities and stockholders' equity                         $13,816     $11,344
                                                                     ========    ========
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.

PAGE 3
                             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                              Three years ended December 31, 1994
                              -----------------------------------
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                               1994        1993        1992
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year             $ 1,659     $ 1,843     $ 1,519
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Cash flows provided by (used for) operating activities:
Net income                                                 2,288       2,295       1,067
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
provided by (used for) operating activities:
  Depreciation                                             1,028         717         518
  Net loss on retirements of property, plant 
    and equipment                                             42          36          57
  Amortization of debt discount                               19          17          16
  Change in deferred tax assets and liabilities             (150)         12          13
  Changes in assets and liabilities:
  (Increase) in accounts receivable                         (530)       (379)       (371)
  (Increase) in inventories                                 (331)       (303)       (113)
  (Increase) in other assets                                 (13)        (68)        (61)
  Increase in accounts payable                               148         146         112
  Tax benefit from employee stock plans                       61          68          55
  Increase in income taxes payable                            38          32         207
  Increase in accrued compensation and benefits               44         109          66
  Increase in other liabilities                              337         119          70
                                                         --------    --------    --------
  Total adjustments                                          693         506         569
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Net cash provided by operating activities                  2,981       2,801       1,636
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Cash flows provided by (used for) investing activities:
Additions to property, plant and equipment                (2,441)     (1,933)     (1,228)
  Purchases of long-term, available-for-sale investments    (975)     (1,165)       (293)
  Sales of long-term, available-for-sale investments          10           5          13
  Maturities and other changes in available-for-sale 
    investments, net                                         503        (244)         28
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Net cash (used for) investing activities                  (2,903)     (3,337)     (1,480)
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Cash flows provided by (used for) financing activities:
  (Decrease) increase in short-term debt, net                (63)        197          29
  Additions to long-term debt                                128         148          --
  Retirement of long-term debt                               (98)         --         (20)
  Proceeds from sales of shares through employee 
    stock plans and other                                    150         133         138
  Proceeds from sale of Step-Up Warrants, net                 --         287          --
  Proceeds from sales of put warrants, net of repurchases     76          62          42
  Repurchase and retirement of Common Stock                 (658)       (391)         --
  Payment of dividends to stockholders                       (92)        (84)        (21)
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities        (557)        352         168
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents        (479)       (184)        324
                                                         --------    --------    --------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of year                   $ 1,180     $ 1,659     $ 1,843
                                                         ========    ========    ========
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information:
Cash paid during the year for:
  Interest                                               $    76     $    39     $    32
  Income taxes                                           $ 1,366     $ 1,123     $   227

</TABLE>
Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to
the 1994 presentation. See accompanying notes.

PAGE 4
                         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                               Three years ended December 31, 1994

<TABLE>
                                        Common Stock and 
                                 capital in excess of par value
                                 ------------------------------
                                          Number                Retained
(In millions)                          of shares      Amount    earnings        Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Balance at December 28, 1991                 408     $ 1,641     $ 2,777     $ 4,418
Proceeds from sales of shares
  through employee stock plans,
  tax benefit of $55 and other                11         193          --         193
Proceeds from sales of put warrants,
  net of repurchases                          --          42          --          42
Reclassification of put warrant 
  obligation, net                                       (100)       (133)       (233)
Cash dividends declared ($.10 per share)      --          --         (42)        (42)
Net income                                    --          --       1,067       1,067
                                         --------    --------    --------    --------
Balance at December 26, 1992                 419       1,776       3,669       5,445
Proceeds from sales of shares through 
  employee stock plans, tax benefit 
  of $68 and other                             6         201          --         201
Proceeds from sales of put warrants           --          62          --          62
Reclassification of put warrant 
  obligation, net                             --         (37)       (278)       (315)
Proceeds from sale of Step-Up Warrants        --         287          --         287
Repurchase and retirement of Common Stock     (7)        (95)       (296)       (391)
Cash dividends declared ($.20 per share)      --          --         (84)        (84)
Net income                                    --          --       2,295       2,295
                                         --------    --------    --------    --------
Balance at December 25, 1993                 418       2,194       5,306       7,500
Proceeds from sales of shares through 
  employee stock plans, tax benefit of
  $61 and other                                6         215          --         215
Proceeds from sales of put warrants           --          76          --          76
Reclassification of put warrant 
  obligation, net                             --         (15)       (106)       (121)
Repurchase and retirement of Common Stock    (11)       (164)       (429)       (593)
Redemption of Common Stock Purchase Rights    --          --          (2)         (2)
Cash dividends declared ($.23 per share)      --          --         (96)        (96)
Net income                                    --          --       2,288       2,288
                                         --------    --------    --------    --------
Balance at December 31, 1994                 413     $ 2,306     $ 6,961     $ 9,267
                                         ========    ========    ========    ========
</TABLE>
See accompanying notes.

PAGE 5
ACCOUNTING POLICIES
FISCAL YEAR. Intel Corporation ("Intel" or "the Company") has a fiscal year 
that ends the last Saturday in December. Fiscal 1994 was a 53-week year and
ended on December 31, 1994. Fiscal 1993 and 1992, each 52-week years, ended on
December 25 and 26, respectively. The next 53-week year will end on December 
30, 2000.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION. The consolidated financial statements include the 
accounts of Intel and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Accounts denominated in foreign
currencies have been remeasured into the functional currency in accordance 
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 52, "Foreign
Currency Translation," using the U.S. dollar as the functional currency.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS. Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid 
investments with insignificant interest rate risk and original maturities of
three months or less.

INVESTMENTS. In 1994, the Company adopted SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain
Investments in Debt and Equity Securities," effective as of the beginning of 
fiscal 1994. This adoption had no material effect on the Company's financial 
statements. All of the Company's short- and long-term investments are 
classified as available-for-sale as of the balance sheet date and are reported
at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses recorded as a component of 
stockholders' equity.

FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS. Fair values of cash and cash equivalents,
short-term investments and short-term debt approximate cost due to the short 
period of time to maturity. Fair values of long-term investments, long-term 
debt, swaps, currency forward contracts and currency options are based on 
quoted market prices or pricing models using current market rates.

INVENTORIES. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is 
computed on a currently adjusted standard basis (which approximates actual cost
on a current average or first-in, first-out basis). Inventories at fiscal year-
ends are as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                         1994            1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>             <C>
Materials and purchased parts       $  345          $  216
Work in process                        528             321
Finished goods                         296             301
                                    ------          ------
Total                               $1,169          $  838
                                    ======          ======
</TABLE>

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT. Property, plant and equipment are stated at 
cost. Depreciation is computed for financial reporting purposes principally by
use of the straight-line method over the following estimated useful lives: 
machinery and equipment, 2-4 years; land and buildings, 4-45 years.

DEFERRED INCOME ON SHIPMENTS TO DISTRIBUTORS. Certain of the Company's sales 
are made to distributors under agreements allowing price protection and/or 
right of return on merchandise unsold by the distributors. Because of frequent
sales price reductions and rapid technological obsolescence in the industry,
Intel defers recognition of such sales until the merchandise is sold by the 
distributors.

INTEREST. Interest as well as gains and losses related to contractual 
agreements to hedge certain investment positions and debt (see "Derivative
financial instruments") are recorded as net interest income or expense on a 
monthly basis. Interest expense capitalized as a component of construction 
costs was $27 million, $8 million and $11 million for 1994, 1993 and 1992, 
respectively.

ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES. In 1993, the Company adopted SFAS No. 109, 
"Accounting for Income Taxes," effective as of the beginning of fiscal 1993. 
This adoption had no material effect on Intel's financial statements. Prior 
years were accounted for under SFAS No. 96 and have not been restated.

EARNINGS PER COMMON AND COMMON EQUIVALENT SHARE. Earnings per common and common
equivalent share are computed using the weighted average number of outstanding 
common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding. Fully diluted 
earnings per share have not been presented as part of the consolidated 
statements of income because the differences are insignificant.

COMMON STOCK
COMMON STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS. At the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders
in May 1994, stockholders approved a proposal to redeem the Common Stock 
Purchase Rights (the "Rights") issued in 1989. A one-time payment of $.005 per 
share was paid to stockholders in September 1994 to redeem the Rights.

1998 STEP-UP WARRANTS. In 1993, the Company issued 20 million 1998 Step-Up 
Warrants to purchase 20 million shares of Common Stock. This transaction 
resulted in an increase of $287 million in Common Stock and capital in excess 
of par value, representing net proceeds from the offering. The Warrants became
exercisable in May 1993 at an effective price of $71.50 per share of Common 
Stock, subject to annual increases to a maximum price of $83.50 per share 
effective in March 1997. As of December 31, 1994, the Warrants are exercisable 
at a price of $74.50 and expire on March 14, 1998 if not previously exercised.
At prevailing market prices for Intel's Common Stock, there is no dilutive 
effect on earnings per share for the periods presented.

STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM. In 1990, the Board of Directors authorized the 
repurchase of up to 40 million shares of Intel's Common Stock in open market 
or negotiated transactions. The Board increased this authorization to a maximum
of 55 million shares in July 1994. During 1994, the Company repurchased and 
retired 10.9 million shares (7.3 million shares in 1993) at a cost of $658 
million ($391 million in 1993). The 1994 amounts include 1.0 million shares 
repurchased for $65 million in connection with the exercise of put warrants 
(see "Put warrants"). As of December 31, 1994, after reserving shares to cover 
outstanding put warrants, 17.9 million shares remained available under the 
repurchase authorization.

PAGE 6
PUT WARRANTS
In a series of private placements from 1991 through 1994, the Company sold put
warrants that entitle the holder of each warrant to sell one share of Common 
Stock to the Company at a specified price. Activity during the past three years
is summarized as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                      Put warrants outstanding
                                    Cumulative        -------------------------
                                       premium          Number       Potential
(In millions)                   received (paid)    of warrants      obligation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
December 28, 1991                        $  14             7.0           $ 140
Sales                                       43            14.0             373
Repurchases                                 (1)           (5.2)           (104)
Expirations                                 --            (1.8)            (36)
                                         ------          ------          ------
December 26, 1992                           56            14.0             373
Sales                                       62            10.8             561
Expirations                                 --           (10.0)           (246)
                                         ------          ------          ------
December 25, 1993                          118            14.8             688
Sales                                       76            12.5             744
Exercises                                   --            (1.0)            (65)
Expirations                                 --           (13.8)           (623)
                                         ------          ------          ------
December 31, 1994                        $ 194            12.5           $ 744
                                         ======          ======          ======

</TABLE>
The amount related to Intel's potential repurchase obligation has been 
reclassified from stockholders' equity to put warrants. The 12.5 million put 
warrants outstanding at December 31, 1994 expire on various dates between 
February 1995 and December 1995 and have exercise prices ranging from $55 to 
$63 per share. There was no effect on earnings per share for the periods 
presented. During 1994, in connection with the exercise of 1.0 million put 
warrants, the Company repurchased and retired 1.0 million shares of Common 
Stock at a cost of $65 million (see "Stock repurchase program").

BORROWINGS
SHORT-TERM DEBT. Short-term debt and weighted average interest rates at fiscal
year-ends are as follows:
<TABLE>
                            1994                               1993
                  ------------------------           -------------------------
                                    Weighted                          Weighted
                                     average                           average
(In millions)       Balance    interest rate          Balance    interest rate
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>              <C>              <C>              <C>
Borrowed under 
  lines of credit     $  68             3.2%            $  85             5.8%
Reverse repurchase 
  agreements             99             8.0%              197             7.9%
Notes payable             5             4.7%                2             3.4%
Short-term portion 
  of long-term debt     179            11.8%               --               --
Drafts payable          166              N/A              115              N/A
                      ------           ------           ------           ------
Total                 $ 517                             $ 399
                      ======           ======           ======           ======
</TABLE>
At December 31, 1994, the Company had established foreign and domestic lines 
of credit of approximately $1,040 million. The Company generally renegotiates
these lines annually. Compensating balance requirements are not material.

The Company also borrows under commercial paper programs. Maximum borrowings 
reached $700 million during both 1994 and 1993. This debt is rated A1+ by 
Standard and Poor's and P1 by Moody's. Proceeds are used to fund short-term 
working capital needs. 

LONG-TERM DEBT. Long-term debt at fiscal year-ends is as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                   1994              1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>               <C>
Payable in U.S. dollars:
AFICA Bonds due 2013 at 4%                     $ 110             $ 110
Zero Coupon Notes due 1995 at 11.8%, 
  net of unamortized discount of $8 
  ($27 in 1993)                                  179               160
8 1/8% Notes due 1997                             --                98
Other U.S. dollar debt                             4                 6
Payable in other currencies:
  Irish punt due 2008-2024 at 6%-12%             228               146
  Greek drachma due 2001                          46                --
Other foreign currency debt                        4                 4
(Less short-term or redeemable portion)         (179)              (98)
                                               ------            ------
Total                                          $ 392             $ 426
                                               ======            ======
</TABLE>
The Company has guaranteed repayment of principal and interest on the AFICA 
Bonds which were issued by the Puerto Rico Industrial, Medical and 
Environmental Pollution Control Facilities Financing Authority (AFICA). The 
bonds are adjustable and redeemable at the option of either the Company or the
bondholder every five years through 2013 and are next adjustable and redeemable
in 1998. The 8 1/8% notes were called and repurchased by the Company during 
1994 for $98 million. The Irish punt borrowings were made in connection with 
the financing of a factory in Ireland, and Intel has invested the proceeds in 
Irish punt denominated instruments of similar maturity to hedge foreign 
currency and interest rate exposures. The Greek drachma borrowings were made 
under a tax incentive program in Ireland, and the proceeds and cash flows have 
been swapped to U.S. dollars.

In 1993, the Company filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC. When 
combined with previous registration statements, this filing gave Intel the 
authority to issue up to $3.3 billion in the aggregate of Common Stock, 
Preferred Stock, depositary shares, debt securities and warrants to purchase 
the Company's Common Stock, Preferred Stock and debt securities, and, subject 
to certain limits, stock index warrants and foreign currency exchange units. In
1993, Intel completed an offering of Step-Up Warrants (see "1998 Step-Up 
Warrants") and may issue up to $1.4 billion in additional securities under open
registration statements. 

As of December 31, 1994, aggregate debt maturities are as follows: 1995-$187 
million; 1996-none; 1997-none; 1998-$110 million; and thereafter-$282 million.

PAGE 7
INVESTMENTS
The Company's policy is to protect the value of the investment portfolio by 
minimizing principal risk and earning returns based on current interest rates.
All hedged equity and a majority of investments in long-term fixed rate debt 
securities are swapped to U.S. dollar LIBOR-based returns. The currency risks 
of investments denominated in foreign currencies are hedged with foreign 
currency borrowings, currency forward contracts or currency interest rate swaps
(see "Derivative financial instruments"). Investments with maturities of 
greater than one year are classified as long term. There were no material 
proceeds, gross realized gains or gross realized losses from sales of 
securities during the year.  

Investments with maturities of greater than six months consist primarily of 
A/A2 or better rated financial instruments and counterparties. Investments with
maturities of up to six months consist primarily of A1/P1 or better rated 
financial instruments and counterparties. Foreign government regulations 
imposed upon investment alternatives of foreign subsidiaries or the absence of
A/A2 rated counterparties in certain countries result in some minor exceptions.
Intel's practice is to obtain and secure collateral from counterparties against
obligations whenever deemed appropriate. At December 31, 1994, investments were
placed with approximately 100 different counterparties, and no individual 
security, financial institution or issuer exceeded 10% of total investments. 

Investments at December 31, 1994 are comprised of the following:
<TABLE>
                                           Gross         Gross
                                      unrealized    unrealized     Estimated
(In millions)                Cost          gains        losses    fair value
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                         <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>
Securities of foreign 
  governments               $ 518          $   2         $  (7)        $ 513
Floating rate notes           488              1            (1)          488
Corporate bonds               440             12           (14)          438
Loan participations           200              6            (2)          204
Collateralized mortgage 
  obligations                 170             --            (4)          166
Fixed rate notes              167              1            (2)          166
Commercial paper              134             --            --           134
Other debt securities         439             --            (5)          434
                           -------        -------       -------       -------
  Total debt securities     2,556             22           (35)        2,543
                           -------        -------       -------       -------
Hedged equity                 431             --           (58)          373
Preferred stock and 
  other equity                368             20           (16)          372
                           -------        -------       -------       -------
  Total equity securities     799             20           (74)          745
                           -------        -------       -------       -------
Swaps hedging 
  debt securities              --             22           (14)            8
Swaps hedging 
  equity securities            --             60            --            60
Currency forward 
  contracts hedging 
   debt securities             --              1            --             1
                           -------        -------       -------       -------
Total available-for-sale 
  securities               $3,355         $  125        $ (123)       $3,357
                           =======        =======       =======       =======
</TABLE>
At December 31, 1994, the Company also holds $930 million of available-for-sale
investments in other debt securities that are classified as cash and 
equivalents on the balance sheet.

The amortized cost and estimated fair value of investments in debt securities 
at December 31, 1994, by contractual maturity, are as follows:
<TABLE>
                                                    Estimated
(In millions)                           Cost       fair value
- -------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>             <C>
Due in 1 year or less                 $1,144          $1,144
Due in 1-2 years                         515             512
Due in 2-5 years                         642             635
Due after 5 years                        255             252
                                      ------          ------
Total investments in debt securities  $2,556          $2,543
                                      ======          ======
</TABLE>

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
As part of its ongoing asset and liability management activities, the Company 
enters into derivative financial instruments to reduce financial market risks.
These instruments are used to hedge foreign currency, equity market and 
interest rate exposures of underlying assets, liabilities and other 
obligations. These instruments involve elements of market risk which offset the
market risk of the underlying assets and liabilities they hedge. The Company 
does not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. 
Notional amounts for derivatives at fiscal year-ends are as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                            1994          1993
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>           <C>
Swaps hedging investments in debt securities           $1,080        $  809
Swaps hedging investments in equity securities         $  567        $  260
Swaps hedging debt                                     $  155        $  110
Currency forward contracts                             $  784        $  620
Currency options                                       $   10        $   28
</TABLE>

While the contract or notional amounts provide one measure of the volume of 
these transactions, they do not represent the amount of the Company's exposure
to credit risk. The amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from 
the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts)
are generally limited to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' 
obligations exceed the obligations of the Company. The Company controls credit
risk through credit approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. Credit rating
criteria for off-balance-sheet transactions are similar to those for 
investments.

SWAP AGREEMENTS. The Company enters into swap agreements to exchange the 
foreign currency, equity market, and fixed interest rate exposures of its 
investment and debt portfolios for a floating interest rate. The floating rates
on swaps are based primarily on U.S. dollar LIBOR and reset on a monthly, 
quarterly or semiannual basis. 

PAGE 8
Weighted average pay and receive rates, average maturities, and range of 
maturities on swaps at December 31, 1994 are as follows:
<TABLE>
                      Weighted       Weighted        Weighted
                       average        average         average      Range of
                      pay rate   receive rate        maturity    maturities
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                     <C>             <C>        <C>           <C>
Swaps hedging
  investments in 
  U.S. dollar 
  debt securities        6.7%           6.0%       1.2 years     0-4 years
Swaps hedging 
  investments in 
  foreign currency
  debt securities       10.8%           8.2%       1.8 years     0-3 years
Swaps hedging 
  investments in 
  equity securities       N/A           5.5%       2.1 years     0-3 years
Swaps hedging debt       6.1%           5.2%       4.9 years     4-7 years
</TABLE>

Pay rates on swaps hedging investments in debt securities generally match the 
yields on the underlying investments they hedge. Payments on swaps hedging 
investments in equity securities generally match the equity returns on the 
underlying investments they hedge. Receive rates on swaps hedging debt 
generally match the expense on the underlying debt they hedge. Maturity dates
of swaps generally match those of the underlying investment or the debt they 
hedge. There is approximately a one-to-one matching of investments and debt to
swaps. Swap agreements generally remain in effect until expiration. Income or 
expense on swaps is accrued as an adjustment to the yield of the related 
investments or debt they hedge.

OTHER FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS. Intel transacts business in various foreign
currencies, primarily Japanese yen and certain European currencies. The Company
enters into currency forward and option contracts to hedge foreign exchange 
risk. The Company also periodically enters into currency option contracts to 
hedge certain anticipated revenue and purchases for which it does not have a 
firm commitment. The maturities on most of these foreign currency instruments 
are less than 12 months. Any gains or losses on these instruments are 
recognized in accordance with SFAS Nos. 52 and 80. Deferred gains or losses 
attributable to foreign currency instruments are not material.

FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The estimated fair values of financial instruments at fiscal year-ends are 
as follows:
<TABLE>
                                     1994                         1993
                            ----------------------      ----------------------
                            Carrying     Estimated      Carrying     Estimated
(In millions)                 amount    fair value        amount    fair value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                          <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Cash and cash equivalents    $ 1,180       $ 1,180       $ 1,659       $ 1,659
Short-term investments         1,230         1,230         1,477         1,477
Long-term investments          2,058         2,058         1,416         1,412
Swaps hedging investments in
  debt securities                  8             8            --            --
Swaps hedging investments in 
  equity securities               60            60            --            --
Short-term debt                 (517)         (517)         (399)         (399)
Long-term debt                  (392)         (384)         (426)         (436)
Swaps hedging debt                --           (12)           --            --
Currency forward contracts         1             5            --             9
Currency options                  --            --            --            --
                              -------       -------       -------       -------
Total                         $3,628        $3,628        $3,727        $3,722
                              =======       =======       =======       =======
</TABLE>

CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of investments and trade receivables. Intel 
places its investments with high-credit-quality counterparties and, by policy, 
limits the amount of credit exposure to any one counterparty. A majority of the
Company's trade receivables are derived from sales to manufacturers of 
microcomputer systems, with the remainder spread across various other 
industries. The Company keeps pace with the evolving computer industry and has 
adopted credit policies and standards to accommodate the industry's growth and 
inherent risk. Management believes that any risk of accounting loss is 
significantly reduced due to the diversity of its products, end customers and 
geographic sales areas. Intel performs ongoing credit evaluations of its 
customers' financial condition and requires collateral, such as letters of 
credit and bank guarantees, whenever deemed necessary. 

INTEREST INCOME AND OTHER
<TABLE>
(In millions)                             1994      1993      1992
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>       <C>       <C>
Interest income                           $235      $155      $141
Foreign currency gains (losses)             15        --        (1)
Other income (loss)                         23        33        (7)
                                          -----     -----     -----
Total                                     $273      $188      $133
                                          =====     =====     =====
</TABLE>

Other income for 1994 included non-recurring gains from the settlement of 
various insurance claims. Other income for 1993 included non-recurring gains 
from the sale of certain foreign benefits related to the Company's Irish 
expansion and dividend income earned on equity investments. Other loss for 1992
included a provision to cover the Company's liability for damages payable under
an arbitration decision, partially offset by income from incentive credits.

PAGE 9
PROVISION FOR TAXES
Income before taxes and the provision for taxes consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
(In millions)                             1994      1993      1992
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>       <C>
Income before taxes:
U.S.                                    $2,460    $2,587    $  924
Foreign                                  1,143       943       645
                                        ------    ------    ------
Total income before taxes:              $3,603    $3,530    $1,569
                                        ======    ======    ======
Provision for taxes:
Federal:
Current                                 $1,169    $  946    $  339
Deferred                                  (178)       35         6
                                        ------    ------    ------
                                           991       981       345
                                        ------    ------    ------
State: 
Current                                    162       150        71
Foreign: 
Current                                    134       127        79
Deferred                                    28       (23)        7
                                        ------    ------    ------
                                           162       104        86
                                        ------    ------    ------
Total provision for taxes               $1,315    $1,235    $  502
                                        ======    ======    ======
Effective tax rate                       36.5%     35.0%     32.0%
                                        ======    ======    ======
</TABLE>

The tax benefit associated with dispositions from employee stock plans reduced
taxes currently payable for 1994 by $61 million and for 1993 by $68 million. 
Such benefits are credited to Common Stock and capital in excess of par value 
when realized.

The provision for taxes reconciles to the amount computed by applying the 
statutory U.S. federal rate of 35% for 1994 (35% for 1993 and 34% for 1992) to 
income before taxes as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                             1994      1993      1992
- -------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>       <C>
Computed expected tax                   $1,261    $1,235    $  533
State taxes, net of federal benefits       105        98        47
Research and experimental credit           (11)      (23)       (7)
Foreign sales corporation benefit          (50)      (46)      (36)
Provision for combined 
  foreign and U.S. taxes on 
  certain foreign income at 
  rates (less) greater
  than U.S. rate                           (37)        1       (17)
Other                                       47       (30)      (18)
                                        -------   -------   -------
Provision for taxes                     $1,315    $1,235    $  502
                                        =======   =======   =======
</TABLE>

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences 
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting 
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components 
of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities at fiscal year-ends are as
follows: 
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                       1994                1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>                 <C>
Deferred tax assets:
Accrued compensation and other benefits           $   49              $   44
Accrued advertising                                   17                  18
Deferred income                                      127                  76
Inventory valuation and related reserves             255                  77
Interest and taxes                                    54                  72
Other, net                                            50                  23
                                                  -------             -------
                                                     552                 310
Deferred tax liabilities:
Depreciation                                        (338)               (245)
Unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries          (51)                (52)
                                                  -------             -------
                                                    (389)               (297)
                                                  -------             -------
Net deferred tax asset                            $  163              $   13
                                                  =======             =======
</TABLE>

During 1992, in accordance with SFAS No. 96, deferred income taxes were 
provided for significant temporary differences. The principal items making up 
the 1992 deferred tax expense included $42 million for depreciation reduced by 
$18 million for inventory valuation and other reserves, and $12 million of 
other items.

The Company's U.S. income tax returns for the years 1978 through 1987 have been
examined by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). In 1989, the Company received a
notice of proposed deficiencies from the IRS totaling $36 million, exclusive of
penalties and interest, for the years 1978 through 1982. These proposed 
deficiencies relate primarily to operations in Puerto Rico. In 1989, the 
Company filed a petition in the U.S. Tax Court contesting these proposed 
deficiencies and subsequently reached settlement of certain issues with the 
IRS. In 1993, the U.S. Tax Court ruled in favor of the Company on the export 
source issue and for the IRS on another, smaller issue. The IRS has appealed 
the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, and 
the Company has filed a cross-appeal of the decision. 

The Company has also received an examination report for the years 1983 through 
1987. Intel has lodged a protest, which relates solely to the export source 
issue referenced above, to the IRS Appeals Office, but no decisions have been 
reached.

The Company's U.S. income tax returns for the years 1988 through 1990 are 
presently under examination by the IRS. Final proposed adjustments have not yet
been received for these years. Management believes that adequate amounts of 
tax and related interest and penalties, if any, have been provided for any 
adjustments that may result from unsettled portions of the 1978-1987 cases or 
the years now under examination.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
STOCK OPTION PLANS. Intel has stock option plans (hereafter referred to as the 
EOP Plans) under which officers, key employees and non-employee directors may 
be granted options to purchase shares of the Company's authorized but unissued 
Common Stock. The Company also has an Executive Long-Term Stock Option Plan 
(ELTSOP) under which certain key executive officers may be granted options to 
purchase shares of the Company's authorized but unissued Common Stock. Under 
all plans, the option purchase price is not less than fair market value at the
date of grant.

PAGE 10
Options currently expire no later than ten years from the grant date. Proceeds 
received by the Company from exercises are credited to Common Stock and capital
in excess of par value. Additional information on EOP Plan activity is as 
follows:
<TABLE>
                                                       Outstanding options
                                       Shares      ---------------------------
                                    available         Number      Aggregate
(In millions)                     for options      of shares          price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>            <C>
December 28, 1991                        38.1           39.0         $  585
Grants                                   (7.3)           7.3            195
Exercises                                  --           (7.6)           (78)
Cancellations                             1.9           (1.9)           (33)
                                       -------        -------        -------
December 26, 1992                        32.7           36.8            669
Grants                                   (7.6)           7.6            357
Exercises                                  --           (4.5)           (56)
Cancellations                             0.9           (0.9)           (24)
                                       -------        -------        -------
December 25, 1993                        26.0           39.0            946
Grants                                   (6.0)           6.0            397
Exercises                                  --           (4.1)           (54)
Cancellations                             0.8           (0.8)           (33)
                                       -------        -------        -------
December 31, 1994                        20.8           40.1         $1,256
                                       =======        =======        =======

Options exercisable at:
December 26, 1992                                        9.8         $   109
December 25, 1993                                       10.2         $   135
December 31, 1994                                       13.1         $   198
</TABLE>

The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at December 31, 1994 was 
$6.08 to $72.25. These options expire if not exercised at specific dates 
ranging from January 1995 to December 2004. Prices for options exercised during
the three-year period ended December 31, 1994 ranged from $3.52 to $58.78.
Activity for the ELTSOP Plan is summarized below:
<TABLE>
                                                      Outstanding options
                                       Shares      -------------------------
                                    available         Number      Aggregate
(In millions)                     for options      of shares          price
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>            <C>
December 28, 1991                         6.4            3.5         $   51
Exercises                                  --           (0.3)            (4)
Cancellations                             0.2           (0.2)            (3)
                                       -------        -------        -------
December 26, 1992                         6.6            3.0             44
Grants                                   (0.2)           0.2             11
Exercises                                  --           (0.4)            (6)
                                       -------        -------        -------
December 25, 1993                         6.4            2.8             49
Exercises                                  --           (0.3)            (4)
                                       -------        -------        -------
December 31, 1994                         6.4            2.5         $   45
                                       =======        =======        =======

Options exercisable at:
December 26, 1992                                        0.5         $    7
December 25, 1993                                        0.7         $   11
December 31, 1994                                        1.3         $   19
</TABLE>

The exercise prices of options outstanding at December 31, 1994 ranged from 
$14.63 to $54.63. These options expire if not exercised at specific dates 
ranging from April 1999 to July 2003. The price range for options exercised 
during the three-year period ended December 31, 1994 was $14.63 to $14.69.

STOCK PARTICIPATION PLAN. Under this plan, qualified employees may purchase 
shares of Intel's Common Stock at 85% of fair market value at specific, 
predetermined dates. Of the 59.0 million shares authorized to be issued under 
the plan, 15.4 million shares are available for issuance at December 31, 1994. 
Employees purchased 2.0 million shares in 1994 (2.2 million and 2.6 million in 
1993 and 1992, respectively) for $94 million ($71 million and $57 million in 
1993 and 1992, respectively).

RETIREMENT PLANS. The Company provides profit-sharing retirement plans (the 
"Profit-Sharing Plans") for the benefit of qualified employees in the U.S. and 
Puerto Rico. The plans are designed to provide employees with an accumulation 
of funds at retirement and provide for annual discretionary contributions to 
trust funds. 

The Company also provides a non-qualified profit-sharing retirement plan (the 
"Non-Qualified Plan") for the benefit of qualified employees in the U.S. This 
plan is designed to permit certain discretionary employer contributions in 
excess of the tax limits applicable to the profit-sharing retirement plans 
discussed above and to permit certain employee deferrals in excess of certain 
tax limits. This plan is intended to be an unfunded plan.

The Company accrued $152 million for the Profit-Sharing Plans and the Non-
Qualified Plan in 1994 ($103 million in 1993 and $93 million in 1992). Of the
$152 million accrued in 1994, the Company expects to fund approximately $126 
million for the 1994 contribution to the Profit-Sharing Plans and to allocate 
approximately $5 million for the Non-Qualified Plan. The remainder, plus 
approximately $120 million carried forward from prior years, is expected to be 
contributed to these plans when allowable under IRS regulations and plan rules.

Contributions made by the Company vest based on the employee's years of 
service. Vesting begins after three years of service in 20% annual increments 
until the employee is 100% vested after seven years.

The Company provides qualified defined benefit pension plans for the benefit of
qualified employees in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Each plan provides for minimum
pension benefits, which are determined by a participant's years of service, 
final average compensation (taking into account the participant's social 
security wage base), and the value of the Company's contributions, plus 
earnings, in the Profit-Sharing Plan. If the balance in the participant's 
Profit-Sharing Plan exceeds the pension guarantee, the participant will receive
benefits from the Profit-Sharing Plan only. Intel's funding policy is 
consistent with the funding requirements of federal laws and regulations.

PAGE 11
Pension expense for 1994, 1993 and 1992 for the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans was 
less than $1 million per year, and no component of expense exceeded $1 million.
The funded status of these plans as of December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993 
is as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                                          1994         1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>
Vested benefit obligation                              $ (3)        $ (2)
                                                       =====        =====
Accumulated benefit obligation                         $ (3)        $ (2)
                                                       =====        =====
Projected benefit obligation                           $ (5)        $ (8)
Fair market value of plan assets                          6            6
                                                       -----        -----
Projected benefit obligation less than 
  (in excess of) plan assets                              1           (2)
Unrecognized net (gain)                                 (12)         (10)
Unrecognized prior service cost                           4            5
                                                       -----        -----
Accrued pension costs                                  $ (7)        $ (7)
                                                       =====        =====
</TABLE>

At fiscal year-ends, the weighted average discount rates and long-term rates 
for compensation increases used for estimating the benefit obligations and the
expected return on plan assets are as follows:

<TABLE>
                                          1994         1993         1992
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
Discount rate                             8.5%         7.0%         8.5%
Rate of increase in compensation levels   5.5%         5.0%         5.5%
Expected long-term return on assets       8.5%         8.5%         8.5%

</TABLE>

Plan assets of the U.S. and Puerto Rico plans consist primarily of listed 
stocks and bonds, repurchase agreements, money market securities, U.S. 
government securities and stock index derivatives.

The Company provides defined-benefit pension plans in certain foreign countries
where required by statute. The Company's funding policy for foreign defined-
benefit plans is consistent with the local requirements in each country. 
Pension expense for 1994, 1993 and 1992 for the foreign plans included the 
following:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                             1994         1993         1992
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
Service cost-benefits earned 
  during the year                         $  5         $  5         $  5
Interest cost of projected
  benefit obligation                         5            6            5
Actual investment (return)
  on plan assets                            (8)          (7)          --
Net amortization and deferral                3            2           (5)
                                          -----        -----        -----
Net pension expense                       $  5         $  6         $  5
                                          =====        =====        =====
</TABLE>

The funded status of the foreign defined-benefit plans as of December 31, 1994
and December 25, 1993 is summarized below:
<TABLE>
                                                 Assets 
                                                 exceed             Accumulated
1994                                        accumulated                benefits
(In millions)                                  benefits           exceed assets
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>                     <C>
Vested benefit obligation                        $  (32)                 $   (4)
                                                 =======                 =======
Accumulated benefit obligation                   $  (34)                 $   (9)
                                                 =======                 =======
Projected benefit obligation                     $  (49)                 $  (16)
Fair market value of plan assets                     51                       3
                                                 -------                 -------
Projected benefit obligation less than 
  (in excess of) plan assets                          2                     (13)
Unrecognized net loss                                 2                       2
Unrecognized net transition obligation               --                       1
                                                 -------                 -------
Prepaid (accrued) pension costs                  $    4                  $  (10)
                                                 =======                 =======

</TABLE>

<TABLE>
                                          Assets exceed             Accumulated
1993                                        accumulated                benefits
(In millions)                                  benefits           exceed assets
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>                     <C>
Vested benefit obligation                       $  (27)                 $   (3)
                                                =======                 =======
Accumulated benefit obligation                  $  (28)                 $   (7)
                                                =======                 =======
Projected benefit obligation                    $  (39)                 $  (12)
Fair market value of plan assets                    41                       2
                                                -------                 -------
Projected benefit obligation
  less than (in excess of) plan assets               2                     (10)
Unrecognized net transition obligation              --                       1
                                                -------                 -------
Prepaid (accrued) pension costs                 $    2                  $   (9)
                                                =======                 =======
</TABLE>

At fiscal year-ends, the weighted average discount rates and long-term rates 
for compensation increases used for estimating the benefit obligations and the 
expected return on plan assets are as follows:
<TABLE>
                                          1994         1993         1992
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>          <C>          <C>
Discount rate                         5.5%-14%     5.5%-14%     5.5%-24%
Rate of increase in
  compensation levels                 4.5%-11%     4.5%-11%     4.5%-18%
Expected long-term 
  return on assets                    5.5%-14%     5.5%-14%     5.5%-24%
</TABLE>

Plan assets of the foreign plans consist primarily of listed stocks, bonds and 
cash surrender value life insurance policies.

OTHER POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS. As of December 31, 1994, Intel does not offer 
the types of benefits covered by SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for 
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," and thus is not affected by this 
statement. SFAS No. 112, "Employers' Accounting for Postemployment Benefits,"
does not materially impact the Company.

PAGE 12
COMMITMENTS
The Company leases a portion of its capital equipment and certain of its 
facilities under leases which expire at various dates through 2003. Rental 
expense was $38 million in 1994, $35 million in 1993 and $39 million in 1992. 
Minimum rental commitments under all non-cancelable leases with an initial term
in excess of one year are payable as follows: 1995-$16 million; 1996-$14 
million; 1997-$11 million; 1998-$8 million; 1999-$5 million; 2000 and beyond-
$8 million. Commitments for construction or purchase of property, plant and 
equipment approximate $1,406 million at December 31, 1994. In connection with 
certain contract manufacturing arrangements, Intel has minimum purchase 
commitments of approximately $150 million at December 31, 1994 for flash 
memories intended for sale.

CONTINGENCIES
In 1991, the Company was sued by Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. (AMD) in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging violations of 
U.S. antitrust laws and claiming $2 billion damages and requesting treble 
damages under the antitrust laws. On January 11, 1995, in connection with the 
settlement of various legal matters between the two companies, the parties 
agreed to dismiss all claims, counterclaims and defenses raised in this action.

During late 1994, numerous civil lawsuits were filed in the U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of California alleging that Intel failed to disclose 
material information relating to the divide problem in the floating point unit 
in the Pentium(R) processor, thereby committing violations of various 
securities laws. In addition, certain officers and directors who sold stock 
were alleged to have committed acts of insider trading. All cases were dismissed
on February 9, 1995.  

During the period from November 29, 1994 through December 19, 1994, numerous 
civil consumer lawsuits were filed in state courts in various states against 
the Company. Although the complaints differ, these actions generally allege 
that Intel breached express and implied warranties, engaged in deceptive 
advertising and otherwise committed consumer fraud by shipping Pentium 
processors that contained a divide problem in the floating point unit, and by 
failing to disclose it. The suits seek compensatory and punitive damages of 
unspecified amounts. In two of the pending cases, plaintiffs have filed a 
motion for a preliminary injunction, seeking to modify and more widely 
publicize Intel's replacement policy and other related relief. The Company 
believes the suits to be without merit and will defend the cases vigorously. 
Although the ultimate outcome of these suits cannot be determined at this time,
management, including internal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of 
this litigation will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial 
position or overall trends in results of operations.

The Company has been named to the California and U.S. federal Superfund lists 
for three of its sites and has completed, along with two other companies, a 
Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study with the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA) to evaluate the groundwater in a certain area related to one of 
its sites. The EPA has issued a Record of Decision with respect to a 
groundwater cleanup plan at that site, including expected costs to complete. 
Under the California and U.S. federal Superfund statutes, liability for cleanup
of this site is joint and several. The Company, however, has reached agreement 
in principle with those same two companies that significantly limits the 
Company's liabilities under the proposed cleanup plan. In addition, the Company
has done extensive cleanup and studies of its sites. In the opinion of 
management, including internal counsel, the potential losses to the Company in
excess of amounts already accrued arising out of these matters will not have a 
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, even if joint and 
several liability were to be assessed.

The Company is party to various other legal proceedings. In the opinion of 
management, including internal counsel, these proceedings will not have a 
material adverse effect on the financial position or overall trends in results 
of operations of the Company.

INDUSTRY SEGMENT REPORTING
Intel operates in one dominant industry segment: the design, development, 
manufacture and sale of microcomputer components and related products at 
various levels of integration. No customer exceeded 10% of revenues in 1994. 
One significant customer accounted for 10% of revenues in 1993; none did so in 
1992. Major operations outside the United States include manufacturing 
facilities in Ireland, Israel, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and sales 
subsidiaries in Japan, Asia-Pacific, and throughout Europe and other parts of 
the world. Summary balance sheet information for operations outside the United 
States at fiscal year-ends is as follows:
<TABLE>
(In millions)                             1994        1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>         <C>
Total assets                            $2,940      $2,192
Total liabilities                       $  962      $  637
Net property, plant and equipment       $1,238      $1,042
</TABLE>

PAGE 13
Geographic information for the three years ended December 31, 1994 is presented
in the following table. Transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at
amounts that are generally above cost and consistent with the rules and 
regulations of governing tax authorities. Such transfers are eliminated in the 
consolidated financial statements. Operating income by geographic segment does 
not include an allocation of general corporate expenses. Identifiable assets 
are those that can be directly associated with a particular geographic area. 
Corporate assets include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, 
deferred tax assets, other current assets, long-term investments and certain 
other assets.
<TABLE>
                  Sales to      Transfers
(In millions) unaffiliated   between geo-           Net      Operating  Identifiable
1994             customers  graphic areas      revenues         income        assets
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                <C>            <C>           <C>            <C>           <C>
United States      $ 5,826        $ 4,561       $10,387        $ 2,742       $ 7,771
Europe               3,158            380         3,538            418         1,733
Japan                  944             61         1,005            125           343
Asia-Pacific         1,593          1,021         2,614            154           540
Other                   --            639           639            378           324
Eliminations            --         (6,662)       (6,662)           179        (1,878)
Corporate               --             --            --           (609)        4,983
                    -------        -------       -------        -------       -------
Consolidated       $11,521        $    --       $11,521        $ 3,387       $13,816
                    =======        =======       =======        =======       =======

1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States      $ 4,416        $ 3,406       $ 7,822        $ 2,896       $ 5,379
Europe               2,476             51         2,527            309         1,214
Japan                  678            119           797            108           351
Asia-Pacific         1,212            745         1,957            132           420
Other                   --            566           566            348           207
Eliminations            --         (4,887)       (4,887)            85        (1,123)
Corporate               --             --            --           (486)        4,896
                    -------        -------       -------        -------       -------
Consolidated       $ 8,782        $    --       $ 8,782        $ 3,392       $11,344
                    =======        =======       =======        =======       =======

1992
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United States      $ 3,018        $ 2,339       $ 5,357        $ 1,313       $ 3,761
Europe               1,435             47         1,482            160           937
Japan                  452             71           523             54           282
Asia-Pacific           939            595         1,534            127           321
Other                   --            444           444            269           175
Eliminations            --         (3,496)       (3,496)            28          (751)
Corporate               --             --            --           (461)        3,364
                    -------        -------       -------        -------       -------
Consolidated       $ 5,844        $    --       $ 5,844        $ 1,490       $ 8,089
                    =======        =======       =======        =======       =======
</TABLE>

Supplemental information (unaudited)
Quarterly information for the two years ended December 31, 1994 is presented on
page 31. 


PAGE 14
REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP
Independent auditors
The Board of Directors and Stockholders, Intel Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Intel 
Corporation as of December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993, and the related 
consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for 
each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994. These financial 
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on 
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of 
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant 
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in 
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Intel Corporation
at December 31, 1994 and December 25, 1993, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 
December 31, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                                           /s/Ernst & Young LLP


San Jose, California
January 16, 1995

PAGE 15
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Ten years ended December 31, 1994

<TABLE>                                                                     Additions to
                         Net investment                Long-term     Stock     property,
                            in property,      Total   debt & put   holders         plant
(In millions)             plant & equip.     assets     warrants    equity     equipment
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>        <C>           <C>       <C>           <C>
1994                            $ 5,367    $13,816       $ 1,136   $ 9,267       $ 2,441
1993                            $ 3,996    $11,344       $ 1,114   $ 7,500       $ 1,933
1992                            $ 2,816    $ 8,089       $   622   $ 5,445       $ 1,228
1991                            $ 2,163    $ 6,292       $   503   $ 4,418       $   948
1990                            $ 1,658    $ 5,376       $   345   $ 3,592       $   680
1989                            $ 1,284    $ 3,994       $   412   $ 2,549       $   422
1988                            $ 1,122    $ 3,550       $   479   $ 2,080       $   477
1987                            $   891    $ 2,499       $   298   $ 1,276       $   302
1986                            $   779    $ 1,977       $   287   $ 1,245       $   155
1985                            $   848    $ 2,153       $   271   $ 1,421       $   236

</TABLE>
<TABLE>
                        Cost                Operating       Net    Earnings   Dividends
              Net         of    Research &     income    income      (loss)    declared
         revenues      sales   development     (loss)    (loss)   per share   per share
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(In millions-- except per share amounts

<S>      <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>          <C>
1994     $11,521    $ 5,576        $ 1,111    $ 3,387   $ 2,288     $  5.24      $ 0.23
1993     $ 8,782    $ 3,252        $   970    $ 3,392   $ 2,295     $  5.20      $ 0.20
1992     $ 5,844    $ 2,557        $   780    $ 1,490   $ 1,067     $  2.49      $ 0.10
1991     $ 4,779    $ 2,316        $   618    $ 1,080   $   819     $  1.96          --
1990     $ 3,921    $ 1,930        $   517    $   858   $   650     $  1.60          --
1989     $ 3,127    $ 1,721        $   365    $   557   $   391     $  1.04          --
1988     $ 2,875    $ 1,506        $   318    $   594   $   453     $  1.26          --
1987     $ 1,907    $ 1,044        $   260    $   246   $   248     $  0.69          --
1986     $ 1,265    $   861        $   228    $  (195)  $  (203)    $ (0.58)         --
1985     $ 1,365    $   943        $   195    $   (60)  $     2     $  0.00          --
</TABLE>

PAGE 16
                            MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS  
                     of financial condition and results of operations

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Intel's net revenues reached a new high in 1994, rising by 31% from 1993 to 
1994 and by 50% from 1992 to 1993, driven by a robust PC market and an ongoing 
shift in demand toward more powerful microprocessors. Higher volumes of 
increasingly faster, more advanced microprocessors, partially offset by lower 
average selling prices, were responsible for most of the growth in revenues 
from 1992 through 1994. The Pentium(R) processor, introduced in 1993, ramped 
into high volume in 1994 and was the major factor in Intel's overall revenue 
growth from 1993 to 1994. Increased sales of newer members of the Intel486(TM) 
microprocessor family, such as the IntelDX2(TM) processor, drove the revenue 
growth from 1992 to 1993.

Higher volumes of motherboard and chipset products also contributed 
significantly to the increase in revenues from 1993 to 1994 and helped enable
the successful Pentium processor ramp. Flash memory revenues increased 
throughout the 1992-1994 period, although not at rates previously expected. 
Sales of system platforms, networking and communications products, and embedded
control products also grew, especially from 1992 to 1993. Growing demand and 
production for the Intel486 microprocessor family resulted in a sharp decline 
in sales of the mature Intel386(TM) CPU family from 1992 to 1993 (graph 
omitted).

Gross margin for the fourth quarter of 1994 included the impact of a $475 
million charge, primarily to cost of sales, to cover replacement costs, 
replacement material and inventory writedown related to a divide problem in 
the floating point unit of the Pentium processor. Cost of sales increased by 
71% from 1993 to 1994 and by 27% from 1992 to 1993. Cost of sales grew at a 
faster rate than revenues during 1993 and 1994, although gross margin dollar 
contribution generally continued to rise. In addition to the one-time charge 
for the Pentium processor floating point problem, growth in cost of sales was 
driven by higher unit volumes, shifts in product mix and costs associated with 
initiating production at new factories. As a result of these factors and the 
revenue trends described above, gross margin percentage declined to 52% in 1994
(37% in the fourth quarter of 1994), compared to 63% in 1993.

Sales of the Intel486 microprocessor family comprised a majority of the 
Company's revenues and a substantial majority of its gross margin during 1992, 
1993 and 1994. While Intel reached its goal of shipping 6-7 million Pentium 
processors later than anticipated, a significant and growing portion of the 
Company's revenues and margins were derived from sales of the Pentium processor
family in 1994. The Pentium processor family comprised 23% of Intel's 
microprocessor unit shipments to the desktop computer market segment in the 
fourth quarter of 1994. If current trends continue, quarterly volumes of the 
Pentium processor family could surpass those of the Intel486 microprocessor 
family during 1995.

Research and development spending grew by 15% from 1993 to 1994, as the Company
continued to invest in internal programs, particularly for microprocessor 
technology development. Increased spending for strategic marketing programs, 
including media merchandising and the Company's Intel Inside(R) cooperative 
advertising program, drove the 24% increase in marketing, general and 
administrative expenses from 1993 to 1994. Spending in the fourth quarter of 
1994 included the greater part of an $80 million Pentium processor 
merchandising program (graph omitted).

Interest expense increased by $7 million from 1993 to 1994, primarily due to 
higher average interest rates on borrowings, partially offset by higher 
interest capitalization resulting from increased facility construction 
programs. The decrease in interest expense from 1992 to 1993 was mainly due to 
lower average interest rates on borrowings.

Interest and other income increased by $85 million from 1993 to 1994, mainly 
due to higher average rates on investments in 1994, gains related to the 
settlement of various insurance claims in 1994, and higher foreign exchange 
gains and investment balances in 1994. Interest and other income in 1993 
includes gains of $27 million from the sale of certain foreign benefits related
to an expansion in Ireland. Interest and other income in 1992 was reduced by a 
$15 million charge to income to cover damages payable to Advanced Micro 
Devices, Inc. (AMD) as part of an arbitration decision (graph omitted).

It is the general practice of the Company to enter into investments and 
corresponding interest rate swaps to enhance the yield on its investment 
portfolio without increasing risk. The Company enters into forward contracts, 
options and swaps to hedge currency, market and interest rate exposures (see 
"Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). Gains and losses on these 
instruments are offset by those on the underlying hedged transactions; as a 
result, there was no material net impact on the Company's financial results 
during 1992-1994. 

PAGE 17
The effective income tax rate rose to 36.5% in 1994 compared to 35.0% and 32.0%
in 1993 and 1992, respectively. The rate increases from 1993 to 1994 resulted 
from the fact that tax credits have not grown as rapidly as overall pretax 
income. This factor, together with an increase in the federal statutory rate, 
also led to an increase in the effective tax rate from 1992 to 1993. The 
adoption of SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," effective at the
beginning of 1993, had no material impact on Intel's financial statements.

FINANCIAL CONDITION
The Company's financial condition remains very strong. As of December 31, 1994,
total cash and short- and long-term investments totaled $4.54 billion, 
essentially unchanged from December 25, 1993. Cash generated from operating 
activities rose to $2.98 billion in 1994 compared to $2.80 billion and $1.64 
billion in 1993 and 1992, respectively.

Investing activities consumed $2.90 billion in cash during 1994, compared to 
$3.34 billion during 1993 and $1.48 billion during 1992. Capital expenditures 
increased substantially in both 1993 and 1994, as the Company continued to 
invest in the property, plant and equipment needed for future business 
requirements, including manufacturing capacity. The Company expects to expend 
approximately $2.9 billion for capital additions in 1995 and had committed 
approximately $1.41 billion for the construction or purchase of property, plant
and equipment as of December 31, 1994 (graph omitted).

The Company used $557 million for financing activities in 1994, while $352 
million and $168 million were provided in 1993 and 1992, respectively. Major 
financing applications of cash in 1994 included stock repurchases of $658 
million, including $65 million for put warrant exercises, and the early 
retirement of the Company's 8 1/8% debt. Sources of financing in 1993 included 
the Company's public offering of the 1998 Step-Up Warrants, which resulted in 
proceeds of $287 million.

As part of its authorized stock repurchase program, the Company had the 
potential obligation at the end of 1994 to buy back 12.5 million shares of its
Common Stock at an aggregate price of $744 million under outstanding put 
warrants.

Other sources of liquidity include combined credit lines and authorized 
commercial paper borrowings of $1.74 billion, only $68 million of which was 
outstanding at December 31, 1994. The Company also maintains the ability to 
issue an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion in debt, equity and other 
securities under SEC shelf registration statements. The Company believes that 
it has the financial resources needed to meet business requirements in the 
foreseeable future, including capital expenditures, strategic operating 
expenses, the dividend program and the Pentium processor replacement program.

OUTLOOK
Future trends for revenue and profitability continue to be difficult to 
predict. The Company faces a number of risks and uncertainties, including 
business conditions and growth in the personal computer industry and general 
economy; competitive factors, including rival chip architectures, imitators of 
the Company's key microprocessors, and price pressures; manufacturing capacity;
and ongoing litigation involving Intel intellectual property.

Intel believes that the $475 million pretax charge taken in the fourth quarter 
to cover the divide problem in the floating point unit of the Pentium processor
will be sufficient to cover all associated replacement and inventory costs. The
Company has completed a full manufacturing transition to the updated Pentium 
processor.

Based on the current case law, Intel's competitors can design microprocessors 
that are compatible with Intel microprocessors and avoid Intel patent rights 
through the use of foundry services that have licenses with Intel. Furthermore,
as part of a recent agreement between Intel and AMD to settle all outstanding 
legal disputes between the two companies, Intel licensed AMD to copy the 
microcode in the Intel386 and Intel486 microprocessors. However, AMD agreed 
that it has no right to copy the microcode in the Pentium processor and future 
microprocessors. The net effect of this situation (i.e., case law and the AMD 
settlement) is that while it is possible for competitors to imitate the 
functionality of Intel processors, future imitations are not expected to be as 
close an imitation as were the Am386* and Am486* products from AMD. 
Competitors' products may add features and increase performance.

Management, including internal counsel, does not believe that the outcome of 
lawsuits currently facing Intel will have a material adverse effect on the 
Company's financial position or overall trends in results of operations (see 
"Contingencies" in "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements"). However, were
an unfavorable ruling to occur in any quarterly period, there exists the 
possibility of a material impact on the net income of that period. Management 
believes, given the Company's current liquidity and cash and investments
balances, that even an adverse judgement would not have a material impact on 
cash and investments or liquidity.

As part of its strategic goal to double performance at major system price 
points, the Company cut microprocessor prices aggressively and systematically 
in 1994, and this trend may continue in 1995. Future distortion of price 
maturity curves could occur as imitation products enter the market in 
significant volume or alternative architectures gain market acceptance. The 
outlook for Pentium processor shipments in 1995 remains dependent on several 
business factors, including continued success in the manufacturing ramp and 
market demand, including microprocessor product mix.

PAGE 18
Gross margin percentage trended downward during 1993 and 1994, although gross 
margin dollar contribution has generally continued to increase on a quarterly 
basis. Except for the one-time charge for the Pentium processor divide problem,
the factors impacting cost of sales growth (discussed above) are expected to 
continue. Research and development and marketing spending is expected to 
continue to grow, as the Company regards these expenditures as critical to 
future business success. The Company expects its tax rate to increase to 37% 
for 1995.

Intel's stock price is subject to significant volatility. If revenues or 
earnings fail to meet expectations of the investment community, there could be 
an immediate and significant impact on the trading price for the Company's 
stock. Because of stock market forces beyond Intel's control and the nature of 
Intel's business, such shortfalls can be sudden. 

The Company believes it has the product portfolio and financial and 
technological resources necessary for continued success, but revenue and 
profitability trends cannot be precisely determined at this time.

                           FINANCIAL INFORMATION BY QUARTER
                                      (unaudited)
<TABLE>
(in millions--except per share and price data)
1994 for quarter ended                        December 31    October 1       July 2      April 2
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Net revenues                                      $ 3,228      $ 2,863      $ 2,770      $ 2,660
Cost of sales                                     $ 2,023      $ 1,273      $ 1,156      $ 1,124
Net income                                        $   372(A)   $   659      $   640      $   617
Earnings per share                                $   .86      $  1.52      $  1.46      $  1.40
Dividends per share(B)   Declared                 $   .06      $   .06      $   .06      $   .05
                         Paid                     $   .06      $   .06      $   .05      $   .05
Market price range Common Stock(C)   High         $ 66.13      $ 67.25      $ 70.63      $ 72.25
                                     Low          $ 57.81      $ 56.50      $ 57.50      $ 61.25
Market price range Step-Up Warrants(C)  High      $ 15.00      $ 16.00      $ 18.44      $ 19.50
                                        Low       $ 12.31      $ 13.00      $ 13.00      $ 15.13
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
(in millions--except per share and price data)
1993 for quarter ended                        December 25 September 25      June 26     March 27
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Net revenues                                      $ 2,389      $ 2,240      $ 2,130      $ 2,023
Cost of sales                                     $   935      $   833      $   766      $   718
Net income                                        $   594(D)   $   584      $   569      $   548
Earnings per share                                $  1.35      $  1.33      $  1.30      $  1.24
Dividends per share(B)   Declared                 $   .05      $   .05      $   .05      $   .05
                         Paid                     $   .05      $   .05      $   .05      $   .05
Market price range Common Stock(C)   High         $ 73.25      $ 68.75      $ 58.75      $ 59.94
                                     Low          $ 56.25      $ 50.00      $ 43.69      $ 43.25
Market price range Step-Up Warrants(C)   High     $ 19.94      $ 17.63      $ 14.31      $ 14.69
                                         Low      $ 13.75      $ 11.25      $  9.44      $ 13.13
</TABLE>
(A)     Net income for the fourth quarter of 1994 was impacted by a $475 
        million pretax charge to revenue and cost of sales to cover replacement
        and other costs associated with a divide problem in the floating point 
        unit of the Company's Pentium processor.
(B)     Intel plans to continue its dividend program. However, dividends are 
        dependent on future earnings, capital requirements and financial 
        condition.
(C)     Intel's Common Stock (symbol INTC) and 1998 Step-Up Warrants 
        (symbol INTCW) are traded on Nasdaq and quoted in the Wall Street 
        Journal and other newspapers. Intel's Common Stock also trades on the 
        Zurich, Basel and Geneva, Switzerland exchanges. At December 31, 1994, 
        there were approximately 39,900 holders of Common Stock. All stock and 
        warrant prices are closing prices per the Nasdaq National Market 
        System.
(D)     Interest and other income for the fourth quarter of 1993 included gains
        of $27 million from the sale of certain foreign benefits related to the
        Company's Ireland expansion.



PAGE 19
GRAPHICS APPENDIX LIST*
 
* In this Appendix, the following descriptions of graphs on pages 29 and 30 of
the Company's 1994 Annual Report to Stockholders that are omitted from the 
EDGAR text are more specific with respect to the actual amounts and percentages
than can be determined from the graphs themselves.
 
The Company submits such more specific descriptions only for the purpose of
complying with EDGAR requirements for transmitting this Annual Report on Form
10-K; such more specific descriptions are not intended in any way to provide
information that is additional to that otherwise provided in the 1994 Annual
Report to Stockholders.
 
<TABLE>
REVENUES AND INCOME
(Dollars in millions)                               1992      1993      1994
                                                  ------    ------    ------
<S>                                               <C>       <C>       <C>
Net revenues                                       5,844     8,782    11,521
Net income                                         1,067     2,295     2,288


COSTS AND EXPENSES
(Percent of revenues)                              1992      1993      1994
                                                 ------    ------    ------
Cost of sales                                       44%       37%       48%
R&D                                                 13%       11%       10%
Marketing and G&A                                   17%       13%       13%
 
 
OTHER INCOME AND EXPENSE
(Dollars in millions)                              1992      1993      1994
                                                 ------    ------    ------
Interest and other income                           133       188       273
Interest expense                                     54        50        57



CASH AND INVESTMENTS
(Dollars in billions)                                        1993      1994
                                                           ------    ------
Cash and cash equivalents                                   1.659     1.180
Short-term investments                                      1.477     1.230
Long-term investments                                       1.416     2.127
</TABLE>


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>5
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 21





                               INTEL CORPORATION


                                  SUBSIDIARIES

                                (All 100% Owned)



Intel International
(Incorporated in California)

Intel Overseas Corp.
(Incorporated in California)

Synchroquartz (U.S.) Corp.
(Incorporated in California)

Intel FSC
(Incorporated in Barbados)

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<TEXT>

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) 
of Intel Corporation of our report dated January 16, 1995, included in the 1994
Annual Report to Stockholders of Intel Corporation.

Our audits also include the financial statement schedule of Intel Corporation 
listed in Item 14(a).  This schedule is the responsibility of the Company's 
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. 
In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when 
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, 
presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration 
Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 33-10392, 2-73464, 2-56648, 33-33983, 2-90217, 
33-29672, and 33-41771; and Form S-3 Nos. 2-97538, 33-20117, 33-54220, 
33-58964, 33-49827, and 33-50971) of our report dated January 16, 1995, with 
respect to the financial statements incorporated herein by reference, and our 
report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial 
statement schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Intel 
Corporation.

                                                    /s/Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
March 27, 1995

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>7
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary information extracted from Intel Corporation's
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE
SHEETS and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such financial
statements.
</LEGEND>
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1994
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1994
<CASH>                                            1180
<SECURITIES>                                      1230
<RECEIVABLES>                                     2010
<ALLOWANCES>                                        32
<INVENTORY>                                       1169
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                  6167
<PP&E>                                            8516
<DEPRECIATION>                                    3149
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                   13816
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                             3024
<BONDS>                                            389
<COMMON>                                          2306
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                              744<F1>
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                           0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                     13816
<SALES>                                          11521
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 11521
<CGS>                                             5576
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                     5576
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                  57
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                   3603
<INCOME-TAX>                                      1315
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                               2288
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                      2288
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     5.24
<EPS-DILUTED>                                        0
<FN>
<F1>Item consists of put warrants.
</FN>
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
