-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MyPTKXnvFbjZDwwbIDitrZMqPt7uWjB5XcgCth3RZhlWTtoUltVSTQZSZ5CSTtcm
 k3UkkMqld0qEbhwpC1rISw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000929624-98-000825.txt : 19980430
<SEC-HEADER>0000929624-98-000825.hdr.sgml : 19980430
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000929624-98-000825
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19980131
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980428
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AUTODESK INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000769397
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				942819853
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14338
		FILM NUMBER:		98603216

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		111 MCINNIS PKWY
		CITY:			SAN RAFAEL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94903
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4155075000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		111 MCINNIS PKWY
		CITY:			SAN RAFAEL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94903
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
================================================================================

                                UNITED STATES
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

  [X]     ANNUAL  REPORT  PURSUANT  TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  SECURITIES  
          EXCHANGE  ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL  YEAR ENDED JANUARY 31, 1998

  [ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

COMMISSION FILE NUMBER:  0-14338

                               AUTODESK, INC.
           (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           DELAWARE                                              94-2819853
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

111 MCINNIS PARKWAY, SAN RAFAEL, CALIFORNIA                         94903
 (Address of principal executive offices)                        (Zip Code)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (415) 507-5000

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                   Name of each exchange
         Title of each class                        on which registered    
         -------------------                       ---------------------
                None                                       None

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                        COMMON STOCK, $0.01 PAR VALUE
                              (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                               Yes [X] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant, based upon the closing sale price of the Common Stock on April 21,
1998 as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, was approximately 
$1,808,000,000. Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by
each person who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been
excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination
of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other
purposes.

As of April 21, 1998, Registrant had outstanding 46,755,000 shares of Common
Stock.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended January
31, 1998 are incorporated by reference into Parts II and IV. Portions of the
Proxy Statement for Registrant's 1998 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
June 25, 1998 are incorporated by reference in Part III.

================================================================================
<PAGE>
 
                                   PART I
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

The forward-looking statements included in this report, which reflect
management's best judgment based on factors currently known, involve risks and
uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in
the forward-looking statements included herein as a result of a number of
factors, including but not limited to those discussed in Item 7, "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,"
incorporated by reference to pages 22 through 32 of the Company's 1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders.


ITEM 1.       BUSINESS

GENERAL

     Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk" or the "Company") was incorporated in California
in 1982 and was reincorporated in Delaware in May 1994. The Company's
two-dimensional ("2D") and three-dimensional ("3D") products are used across
industries and in the home for architectural design, mechanical design, spatial
data management and mapping, animation, and visualization applications. The
Company's flagship product, AutoCAD/R/, is one of the world's leading
computer-aided design ("CAD") tools, with an installed base of more than 1.9
million units worldwide. The Company's software products are sold worldwide,
primarily through a network of dealers and distributors.

     In February 1995, the Company realigned its internal marketing and
development organizations around key market groups that most closely match
Autodesk's customer base. During fiscal year 1998, the Company defined a new
market group, the Personal Solutions Group ("PSG"), whose products are targeted
to individual users as well as professionals. Each market group incorporates
product development, quality assurance, technical publications, and product
industry marketing. The Company's market groups are discussed below.

     Architecture, Engineering, and Construction ("AEC") The architecture,
engineering, construction, and facilities management industries utilize software
from the Company and third-party developers to manage every phase of a
building's life cycle--from conceptual design through construction, maintenance,
and renovation. During fiscal year 1998, the Company expanded its product
offerings for the AEC Market Group by acquiring Softdesk, Inc. in March 1997.
AEC products include AutoCAD + S8 Architectural Suite, Softdesk/R/ 8 AEC Tools,
and AEC Professional Suite.

     Mechanical Computer-Aided Design ("MCAD") The Company's Mechanical CAD
Market Group is dedicated to providing mechanical engineers, designers, and
drafters with advanced, value-based software solutions that are designed to
solve their professional design challenges. Autodesk's premier MCAD product is
Mechanical Desktop/R/.

     Geographic Information Systems ("GIS") The Company's GIS Market Group
strategy is to provide easy-to-use mapping and GIS technology to help businesses
and governments manage their assets and infrastructure. The GIS Market Group is
assisting automated mapping/facilities managers, as well as GIS and CAD users,
to share mapping, GIS, and associated information in a corporate environment.
The Company's current GIS products include AutoCAD Map/R/, Autodesk 
MapGuide/TM/, and Autodesk World/TM/.

     Personal Solutions Group ("PSG") The PSG Market Group develops easy-to-use,
affordable tools for professionals, occasional users, or consumers who design,
draft, and diagram, thus expanding the Company's traditional customer base of
architects and engineers. PSG products include AutoCAD LT/R/, AutoSketch/R/, and
Picture This Home!/R/ Kitchen & Bath.

     Kinetix/R/ The Kinetix division of Autodesk is devoted to bringing powerful
3D content-creation software to computer-industry professionals focused on two
markets: entertainment (film, broadcast video, and interactive games) and design
conceptualization and visualization. Kinetix provides two core platform 
products--3D Studio MAX/R/ and 3D Studio VIZ/TM/, that specifically focus on
these markets.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
PRODUCTS

The Company has aligned its market groups into three segments: the Design
Solutions segment (which includes the AEC, MCAD, and GIS market groups, as well
as AutoCAD products), the Personal Solutions segment, and Kinetix (the
multimedia segment). The Company's Design Solutions segment includes the
following products:

AutoCAD/R/

     AutoCAD software is a general-purpose CAD tool used independently and in
conjunction with specific applications designed to work with AutoCAD in fields
ranging from architecture and mechanical design to plant design and mapping.
Professionals utilize AutoCAD for design, modeling, drafting, mapping,
rendering, and management tasks. AutoCAD runs on MS-DOS/R/, Windows/R/ 95,
Windows NT/R/ for both Intel and Alpha, Windows 3.1, and certain UNIX-based
platforms (Sun Solaris, HP-UX, Silicon Graphics IRIX, and IBM AIX). Because
AutoCAD software's DWG files are portable across many platforms and operating
systems, it is a viable solution for customers with multiple computer systems
who need to exchange drawing files in such an environment.

     The most current version, AutoCAD Release 14, was introduced in May 1997.
Built for speed and efficiency, AutoCAD Release 14 includes enhancements in
areas that most influence productivity, including: precision drawing tools such
as AutoSnap/TM/, data-sharing features like raster image and reference file
clipping, photorealistic rendering, solid fills, and TrueType fonts.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
     AutoCAD software's open-system architecture allows users to adapt AutoCAD
to unique professional requirements with any of more than 5,000 independently
developed add-on applications. Many of these applications are based on
ObjectARX/TM/ technology, a new generation of C++-based application programming
interfaces ("APIs"). ObjectARX-based applications utilize AutoCAD software's
object-oriented capabilities.

     Sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD upgrades accounted for approximately 70
percent of Autodesk's revenues in fiscal years 1998 and 1997 as compared to
approximately 80 percent in fiscal year 1996. During fiscal year 1998,
approximately 244,000 new AutoCAD licenses were added worldwide, compared to
207,000 licenses and 233,000 licenses added during fiscal years 1997 and 1996,
respectively.

AutoCAD/R/ OEM

     AutoCAD OEM ("Original Equipment Manufacturer") for Windows-based operating
systems is a selectively licensed CAD engine offering a complete
application-development environment for creating and delivering targeted or
niche solutions with scaled feature sets. It is for developers, system
integrators, and commercial software developers who require an embeddable CAD
system which gives them the ability to scale and control the application feature
set. AutoCAD OEM provides developers with a complete toolkit of AutoCAD features
and APIs including ObjectARX capabilities, a full suite of drawing and editing
functions as well as AutoLISP/R/, a LISP API, and the AutoCAD Development
System/R/, a C programming interface. These capabilities enable development of
new products for new markets untapped by traditional CAD products and solutions.

Mechanical Desktop/R/

     Mechanical Desktop software is an integrated software application that
unites advanced 2D and 3D mechanical design capabilities for PCs. The Mechanical
Desktop contains integrated modules for fully parametric feature-based solid
modeling, surface modeling, and assembly modeling; 2D design/drafting and
bidirectional associative drafting; as well as a built-in Autodesk IGES
Translator, which enables users to accurately exchange IGES (Initial Graphics
Exchange Specification) data with other systems. Mechanical Desktop Release 2.0,
which was released in December 1997, includes an Express User Interface,
Edit-in-Place assembly functionality, and improved integration with the
Company's AutoCAD Release 14 for mechanical drafting, and 3D Studio MAX for 3D
photorealistic rendering and animation. Advanced ordinate dimensioning, editing
and display of crosshatch patterns, surface scaling, section view, and
associative bill-of-materials generation are among the features included in the
latest release of Mechanical Desktop software.

AutoCAD Map/R/

     AutoCAD Map software is the first AutoCAD-based automated-mapping product
for professional planners, utility managers, and technicians who create and
maintain their own maps and use their data for engineering-based analysis and
planning. Built with AutoCAD software, AutoCAD Map focuses on five key areas:
digital map creation, analysis, maintenance of up-to-date maps, data exchange,
and publishing. The API in AutoCAD Map lets developers build vertical
applications for industries such as telecommunications, utilities, oil and gas,
state and local government, and natural resource and environmental engineering.
AutoCAD Map also contains ObjectARX capabilities.

Autodesk MapGuide/TM/

     MapGuide is a Web-based GIS technology that is designed to allow corporate
customers and developers to use the Internet and business intranets to rapidly
deploy decision support systems with a geographic component. Suited for a wide
range of users--from GIS professionals to the casual computer user--MapGuide
software enables users to access and query digital maps and permits users to
display and analyze geographic data for applications that include tracking
customers, allocating resources, and managing facilities infrastructure.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
Autodesk World/TM/

     Autodesk World allows for the management of geographic-based data. It
offers capture, edit, analysis, integration, and presentation functionality for
spatial data, including raster, vector (CAD and GIS), and attributes. It also
includes Object Linking and Embedding ("OLE"), which allows users to link
drawings to other Windows applications such as Microsoft/R/ Word or Excel,
application programming interfaces, and an integrated Visual Basic for
Applications 5.0 scripting environment for easy customization and application
development.

AEC Professional Suite

     Autodesk AEC Professional Suite 2.0, introduced in June 1997, is an
integrated set of design tools created for professionals in the fields of
Architecture, Engineering, Construction, Facility Management, and Plant Design
and Management. It includes AutoCAD Release 14 software, specialized AEC AutoCAD
enhancements, Architectural Symbols, Autodesk WalkThrough/TM/, DesignBlocks/R/,
and Autodesk View/R/. The AEC Professional Suite Release 2.0 serves a variety of
needs of the AEC professional via improved customization and ease-of-use,
integration of visualization tools into the design process and CAD applications,
access to standard manufacturer data, and a lower cost for the overall design
solution. Enhancements to the Suite enable the user to detect and mend lines and
arcs that are coincident or overlapping, create and control perspective view
with Camera Object, and provide access to more than 300 ready-made textures from
multiple AEC-specific materials libraries.

Softdesk/R/ 8 Civil/ Survey Special Edition

    The Softdesk 8 Civil/Survey Special Edition is a focused set of programs for
professionals in the Civil Engineering, Land Planning, and Surveying industries.
These products extend AutoCAD Release 14 or AutoCAD Map 2.0 by addressing common
surveying requirements such as Surface Modeling and Contouring, Point
Manipulation, Data Input and Analysis, Base Map Creation, and the incorporation
of raster imagery. The solution also offers design and analysis capabilities for
site and transportation, storm and sanitary drain systems, grading, parking, and
landscape design.

AutoCAD/R/ + S8 Architectural Suite

    The AutoCAD + S8 Architectural Suite includes other AEC products such as S8
Architectural Professional Special Edition, AEC Tools, and Auto-Architect/TM/.
Auto-Architect includes landscape tools and utilities to generate structural
foundation/framing plans and elevations in addition to space planning, walls,
doors and windows, roofs and stairs. In this suite, AEC Tools is used to manage
project and office standards and to create and manage details and other
productive utilities.


The Company's Personal Solutions segment includes the following products:

AutoCAD LT/R/

     AutoCAD LT 97 is a low-cost 2D CAD application intended for CAD managers,
designers, and engineers who need a powerful, stand-alone CAD tool, but who do
not require the advanced feature set in AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT 97 software contains
an extensive 2D drafting toolset as well as 3D lines and polylines with quick
shading and hidden-line removal. Other features include a Start-Up dialog box
and Drawing Set-Up wizards to help the user create or open a drawing quickly;
real-time pan and zoom; a Drag-and-Drop Content Explorer featuring hundreds of
industry-standard symbols; and Integrated Internet Tools to open or save
drawings directly to the Internet. AutoCAD LT operates in the Windows
environment with pull-down menus, customizable toolbar, toolbox, menus, and
scripts, as well as dialog boxes and icons. It supports the Windows Clipboard,
as well as OLE. AutoCAD LT 97 is fully compatible with Windows 95 and Windows NT
4.0 and has built-in Microsoft Office 97 compatibility.

AutoSketch/R/

     AutoSketch Release 5.0 for Windows is a precision drawing program that can
be used for creating technical diagrams, architectural layouts, electrical
drawings, mechanical plans, information graphics, and presentations. The
Application Wizards customize their interfaces based on the type of drawing to
allow for the creation of drawings, diagrams, and sketches.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
Picture This Home!/R/ Kitchen & Bath

     Introduced by the Company during fiscal year 1997, Picture This Home!
Kitchen is a kitchen remodeling program that allows users to visualize and plan
their own kitchen. Picture This Home! Bath lets consumers create a complete
customized bathroom and instantly view their decorating and design choices in 2D
and 3D images. The technology also allows users to mix and match thousands of
decorative products (such as paints, wallpapers, fixtures, and appliances) from
top manufacturers using magazine-quality photographic images.


The principal product offerings from the Kinetix segment are discussed below:

3D Studio MAX/R/

     3D Studio MAX R2 software, which began shipping in the third quarter of
fiscal year 1998, is a 3D modeling and animation software package specifically
written to take advantage of advanced features offered by the Windows NT
operating system. With a real-time interface, multiple-processor support, and 3D
graphics acceleration capabilities, 3D Studio MAX delivers workstation-class
performance and functionality to PCs.

     The intuitive interface eliminates many of the commonly accepted boundaries
between modeling, rendering, and animation, and offers instant feedback; users
can see the results of their actions in real time, as they are applied. Shaded
views with real-time feedback allows users to visualize natural, real-world
environments in which they can directly manipulate objects, regardless of scene
complexity. Because 3D Studio MAX software maintains a data history of geometry
creation and modification, users can return to and change any step, at any time,
without having to redo prior work. 3D Studio MAX is also the only environment
that can run Character Studio/TM/, a powerful character-animation and skinning
plug-in software product offered by Kinetix.


3D Studio VIZ/TM/

     3D Studio VIZ, introduced in May 1997, is a design tool that enables users
to express ideas on-screen, in full 3D. Architectural models, engineering
samples, and construction-site previews all become a quick reality with this new
Kinetix software tool. Real-world feedback can be incorporated into the design,
and users can explore more options with their customers more cost-effectively.
3D Studio VIZ and AutoCAD files are easily exchanged and allow for the
development of advanced engineering or architectural visualizations. 3D Studio
VIZ animates, so clients can take a simulated walkthrough of a site, understand
a structure, or view a part as it will operate in the final assembly. The VIZ
user interface employs CAD-like creation tools including fillets, trims, and
chamfers.


PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENT

     The computer industry is characterized by rapid technological change in
computer hardware, operating systems, and software. To keep pace with this
change, the Company maintains an aggressive program of new product development.
The Company dedicates considerable resources to research and development to
further enhance its existing products and to create new products and
technologies. During fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, the Company incurred
$122,432,000, $93,702,000, and $78,678,000, respectively, for software design,
development, product localization, and project-management activities (excluding
capitalized software development costs of approximately $2,200,000 in fiscal
year 1998; no software development costs were capitalized during fiscal years
1997 and 1996).

     The majority of the Company's basic research and product development has
been performed in the United States, while translation and localization of
foreign-market versions are generally performed by development teams or
contractors in the local markets. Autodesk's product-related functions in
Europe, including software development, localization, quality assurance, and
technical publications, are centralized in Neuchatel, Switzerland. Production in
Europe is centralized in Ireland, and production in Asia Pacific is centralized
in Singapore.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
     The Company intends to continue recruiting and hiring experienced software
developers and to consider the licensing and acquisition of complementary
software technologies and businesses. In addition, the Company will continue to
actively collaborate with and support independent software developers who offer
products that enhance and complement AutoCAD software and other products offered
by Autodesk.

     The software products offered by the Company are internally complex.
Despite extensive testing and quality control, these products may contain errors
or defects ("bugs"), especially when first introduced. In fiscal year 1996,
Autodesk experienced quality and performance issues associated with AutoCAD
Release 13, including issues related to compatibility with certain hardware
platforms and peripheral equipment, interoperability problems with products
designed to work in conjunction with AutoCAD Release 13, and other issues
associated with the software's object-oriented design. These factors resulted in
a high rate of product returns in fiscal year 1996. There can be no assurance
that defects or errors will not occur in future releases of AutoCAD or other
software products offered by the Company. Such defects or errors could result in
corrective releases to the Company's software products, damage to Autodesk's
reputation, loss of revenues, an increase in product returns, or lack of market
acceptance of its products, any of which could have a material and adverse
effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of operations.

     The Company believes that its future results will depend largely upon its
ability to offer products that compete favorably with respect to price,
reliability, performance, range of useful features, continuing product
enhancements, reputation, and training. Delays or difficulties may result in the
delay or cancellation of planned development projects, and could have a material
and adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of
operations. Further, increased competition in the market for design, mapping, or
multimedia software products could also have a negative impact on the Company's
business and consolidated results of operations. More specifically, gross
margins may be adversely affected if sales of low-end CAD products, which
historically have had lower margins, grow at a faster rate than the Company's
higher-margin products.

     Certain of the Company's historical product development activities have
been performed by independent firms and contractors, while other technologies
are licensed from third parties. The Company generally either owns or licenses
the software developed by third parties. Because talented development personnel
are in high demand, there can be no assurance that independent developers,
including those who have developed products for the Company in the past, will be
able to provide development support to the Company in the future. Similarly,
there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain and renew
existing license agreements on favorable terms, if at all, which could have a
material and adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results
of operations.

     Autodesk's business strategy has historically depended in large part on its
relationships with third-party developers, who provide products that expand the 
functionality of Autodesk's design software. There can be no assurance that 
certain developers will not elect to support other products or otherwise 
experience disruption in product development and delivery cycles. Such 
disruption in particular markets could negatively impact these third-party 
developers and end users, which could have a material adverse effect on 
Autodesk's business and consolidated results of operations. Further, increased 
merger and acquisition activity currently experienced in the technology industry
could affect relationships with other third-party developers, and thus adversely
affect operating results.

     Additionally, there can be no assurance that the Company's development
efforts will result in the timely introduction of new products or that such new
products will be commercially successful. Failure to successfully develop new
products, delays in the introduction of these new products, or
lower-than-anticipated demand for these products could have a material and
adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of operations.


MARKETING AND SALES

     Autodesk's customer-related operations are divided into three geographic
regions: the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific. Autodesk's products are
marketed worldwide through a network of domestic and foreign offices. The
Company sells its software products primarily through distributors and dealers
(value-added resellers or "VARs") who distribute the Company's products to
end-users in more than 150 countries. VARs, including both independent owners
and computer store franchisees, are supported by the Company and its
subsidiaries through technical training, periodic publications, and Autodesk's
Home Page on the Internet.

     In addition, the Company works directly with dealer and distributor sales
organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and
peripherals manufacturers through cooperative advertising, promotions, and
trade-show presentations. Autodesk also holds annual "Expos" throughout the
world. These dedicated trade shows, incorporated within major industry trade
shows, highlight Autodesk's products, as well as a number of third-party
products. The Company also employs mass-marketing techniques such as direct
mailings and advertising in business and trade journals. Further, Autodesk
supports user groups dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use
of the Company's products.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
     Domestically, the Company distributes its products primarily through its
authorized dealer network. Other domestic sales are made principally to large
corporations, governmental agencies, educational institutions, and, for certain
low-end CAD products, to end users. Substantially all of Autodesk's
international sales are made to dealers and distributors, which are supported by
Autodesk's foreign subsidiaries and international sales organizations. Certain
international sales result from direct exports from the United States.
Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, specifically the stronger value of the
dollar, relative to certain international currencies, negatively impacted
foreign revenues during fiscal year 1998. These foreign currency fluctuations,
as well as any slowdowns in any of the Company's geographical markets, including
the recent economic instability experienced in certain Asia Pacific countries,
could have a material adverse effect on Autodesk's business and future
consolidated results of operations.

     Autodesk's ability to effectively distribute its products depends in part
upon the financial and business condition of its VAR network. Although the
Company has not to date experienced any material problems with its VAR network,
computer software dealers and distributors are typically not highly capitalized,
have tended to experience difficulties during times of economic contraction and
during periods of technology-market price pressure, and may do so in the future.
While no single customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Autodesk's
consolidated revenues in fiscal years 1998, 1997, or 1996, the loss of, or a
significant reduction in, business with any one of Autodesk's major
international distributors or large U.S. resellers could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of operations.

     The Company intends to continue to make its products available in foreign
languages and expects that foreign sales will continue to contribute a
significant portion of its consolidated revenues. Foreign revenues, including
export sales from the United States to foreign customers, accounted for
approximately 58 percent, 65 percent, and 64 percent of revenues in fiscal years
1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.


CUSTOMER AND DEALER SUPPORT

     During fiscal year 1998, the Company realigned its customer and dealer
support network around its market groups to better provide services related to
specific industry segments. The Company requires each authorized dealer and
distributor to provide a professional level of technical support to customers by
employing full-time, trained, technical-support personnel. The Company supports
its dealers and distributors through technical product training, sales training
classes, and direct telephone support. During fiscal year 1998, the Company
began to offer more end-user support in addition to services which had
historically been offered such as the online support available through the
Autodesk Home Page on the Internet. These new support services include the
Web-Based Learning program, a fee-based distance learning program that provides
lessons and tutorials that highlight critical components of the Company's
products, and the Multimedia Learning Assistance program, which provides lessons
related to design projects through an interactive multimedia tool.

     Autodesk offers phone support through authorized Autodesk dealers under two
programs: the Autodesk Premier Support Program ("APSP") and the Autodesk Systems
Center Program ("ASCP"). Under the APSP, participating dealers act as dedicated
account managers to Autodesk customers that have technical questions related to
a specific vertical industry. The ASCP requires dealers to provide superior
industry-specific application training to end users of the Company's products.
In addition, Autodesk provides direct phone support to end users under the new
Safety Net Program ("SNP"). Under the SNP, Autodesk support staff provide
technical support for customers with questions about AutoCAD and products
offered by the Company's market groups.

     As of January 31, 1998, the Company had authorized more than 900
independent Autodesk Training Centers ("ATCs") throughout the world. These
accredited training centers offer in-depth education and training in
computer-aided design skills on AutoCAD and other Autodesk products, as well as
on related, independently developed software.

     Customers have formed Autodesk user groups as forums for education and to
suggest product enhancements and development of new products. The Autodesk User
Group International ("AUGI/TM/"), officially recognized by Autodesk, sponsors an
annual meeting held concurrently with the Autodesk University/R/ user show;
publishes a quarterly newsletter; independently evaluates Autodesk products;
compiles user feature and functionality requirements; and offers telecourses
taught by its membership on CompuServe. In addition, there are local user groups
in Europe, Asia Pacific, and the Americas focused on expanding the use of
Autodesk products.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
DEVELOPER PROGRAMS

     One of the Company's key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture
design of its software products to facilitate third-party development of
peripheral and complementary products. This approach enables customers and third
parties to customize the Company's products for a wide variety of highly
specific uses. Autodesk offers several programs that provide marketing, sales,
and technical support and programming tools to Autodesk Registered Developers
worldwide, who have, to date, developed more than 5,000 commercially available
add-on applications for Autodesk products. Although Autodesk derives no direct
revenue from these application developers, the Company believes that the
availability and use of their add-on products enhance sales opportunities for
Autodesk's core products.

     Under the Autodesk Developer Channel, the Company offers three programs to
third-party developers that are interested in licensing Autodesk software and
technology. The Unique Application Reseller program ("UAR") allows software
developer partners the ability to sell and support Autodesk software when
bundled with specifically defined vertical applications. The OEM program
provides the technology for qualified developers to create and deliver suites of
scalable products that focus on solving customer needs in specialized markets.
The Solution Integrator ("SI") allows solution provider partners the ability to
sell and support Autodesk software when bundled with specifically defined
vertical solutions.

     To support the growth of third-party developers, whose applications extend
and enhance the functionality of Autodesk's products worldwide, the Company
established the Virtual Corporation Partner Program ("VCPP") during fiscal year
1995. The VCPP is a business network comprised of dealers, independent
application developers, Autodesk Training Centers, and customers. This program
provides sales, marketing, technical, product, management, and financial support
to Autodesk Strategic Developers and Dealers.

     During fiscal year 1998, the Company continued to expand the Mechanical
Applications Initiative ("MAI") by adding new partners. This program, which was
introduced in fiscal year 1996, is aimed at the development and marketing of
products which can be integrated with Autodesk's MCAD products. MAI partners
participate with Autodesk in product marketing and development activities.


BACKLOG

     Autodesk typically ships products within one to two weeks after receipt of
an order, which is common in the computer software industry. Accordingly,
Autodesk does not maintain significant backlog, and backlog as of any particular
date gives no indication of actual sales for any succeeding period.


COMPETITION

     The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability
of desktop computers with continually expanding capabilities at progressively
lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. Because of these and other
factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the
future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced revenues
and profit margins, and loss of market share, any of which could adversely
affect Autodesk's business, consolidated results of operations and financial
condition.

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
     The AEC family of products competes directly with software offered by
companies such as Bentley Systems, Inc. ("Bentley"); Computervision Corporation
(a subsidiary of Parametric Technologies, Inc.); CADAM Systems Company, Inc.;
Diehl Graphsoft, Inc.; EaglePoint Software; International Microcomputer
Software, Inc. ("IMSI"); Intergraph Corporation; Ketiv Technologies; Nemetschek
Systems, Inc.; and Visio Corporation ("Visio"). The Company's MCAD products
compete with products offered by Bentley; Visionary Design Systems;
Hewlett-Packard Corporation; Parametric Technologies, Inc.; Structural Dynamics
Research Corporation; Unigraphics; Computervision Corporation (a subsidiary of
Parametric Technologies); Dassault Systemes; SolidWorks Corporation (a
subsidiary of Dassault); and Baystate Technologies, Inc. The Company's GIS
Market Group faces competition from Bentley; Intergraph Corporation; MapInfo
Corporation; Earth Sciences Research Institute ("ESRI"); and MCI Systemhouse.
Kinetix product offerings compete with products offered by other multimedia
companies such as Adobe Systems Inc.; Macromedia, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation;
and Silicon Graphics, Inc. The Personal Solutions Group family of products
competes with Broderbund Software, Inc.; IMSI; Visio; and Micrografx Inc.
Certain of the competitors of the Company have greater financial, technical,
sales and marketing, and other resources than the Company.

     Autodesk believes that the principal factors affecting competition in its
markets are price, product reliability, performance, range of useful features,
continuing product enhancements, reputation, and training. In addition, the
availability of third-party application software is a competitive factor within
the CAD market. Autodesk believes that it competes favorably in these areas and
that its competitive position will depend, in part, upon its continued ability
to enhance existing products, and to develop and market new products.

     In April 1998, the Company received notice that the Federal Trade 
Commission ("FTC") has undertaken a nonpublic investigation of its business 
practices.  The FTC had not made any claims or allegations regarding the 
Company's current business practices or policies, nor have any charges been 
filed.  Autodesk intends to cooperate fully with the FTC in its inquiry.  The 
Company does not believe that the investigation will have a material impact on 
its business or results of operations.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSES

     The Company protects its intellectual property through copyright, trade
secret, patent, and trademark laws. For substantially all AutoCAD sales outside
of North America, the Company uses software protection locks to inhibit
unauthorized copying. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that Autodesk's
intellectual property rights can be successfully asserted in the future or will
not be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of
certain foreign countries where Autodesk's products are distributed do not
protect Autodesk's intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws.
The inability of the Company to protect its proprietary information could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of
operations.

     From time to time, the Company receives claims alleging infringement of a
third party's intellectual property rights, including patents. Any disputes
involving Autodesk's intellectual property rights or those of another party
could lead to costly litigation which could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business and consolidated results of operations.

     The Company retains ownership of software it develops. All software is
licensed to users and provided in object code pursuant to either shrink-wrap,
embedded or on-line licenses, or executed license agreements. These agreements
contain restrictions on duplication, disclosure, and transfer.

     The Company believes that because of the limitations of laws protecting its
intellectual property and the rapid, ongoing technological changes in both the
computer hardware and software industries, it must rely principally upon
software engineering and marketing skills to maintain and enhance its
competitive market position.

     The Company has an in-house antipiracy program focused on pursuing
companies and individuals who illegally duplicate, sell, or install Autodesk's
software products. Software piracy is in some cases a felony under U.S. federal
law, which allows copyright and patent holders to protect and enforce their
rights as owners of intellectual property. Additionally, Autodesk is a member
and co-founder of the Business Software Alliance ("BSA"), an organization
comprised of member software companies whose purpose is to advance favorable
public policy for the technology industry and promote the importance of honoring
software copyrights.

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
PRODUCTION

     Production of the Company's software products involves duplication of the
software media and the printing of user manuals. The purchase of media and the
transfer of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are
performed by the Company and by licensed subcontractors. Media for Autodesk's
products include CD-ROMs and disks which are available from multiple sources.
User manuals for the Company's products and packaging materials are produced to
Company specifications by outside sources. Domestic production is performed in
leased facilities operated by the Company. Certain product assembly is also
performed by independent third-party contractors. International production is
performed by independent third-party contractors in Ireland and Singapore. To
date, the Company has not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the
production of its software and documentation.

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
EMPLOYEES

     As of January 31, 1998, the Company had 2,470 full-time employees, of which
1,784 were based in the Americas, 428 in Europe, and 258 in Asia Pacific. The
continued growth and success of the Company depends significantly on the
continued service of highly skilled employees. Competition for these employees
in today's marketplace, especially in the technology industries, is intense. The
Company's ability to attract and retain employees is dependent on a number of
factors, including its continued ability to grant stock incentive awards. There
can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in continuing to recruit
new personnel and to retain existing personnel. The loss of one or more key
employees or the Company's inability to maintain existing employees or recruit
new employees could have a material adverse impact on the Company. None of the
Company's employees in the United States is subject to a collective bargaining
agreement, and the Company has never experienced a work stoppage. Management
believes that its relations with its employees are good.


ITEM 2.       PROPERTIES

     The Company's executive offices and those related to product development,
domestic marketing and sales, and production are located in leased office space
in northern California. The Company also leases office space in various
locations throughout the United States for local sales, development, and
technical support personnel. Autodesk's foreign subsidiaries lease office space
for their operations. The Company owns substantially all equipment used in its
facilities.



ITEM 3.       LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     In May 1997, the Company settled a lawsuit filed by Tektronix, Inc.
alleging a patent infringement, pursuant to which all of Tektronix's claims have
been dismissed.

     In December 1994, the Company recorded a $25.5 million litigation charge as
a result of a judgment against the Company on a claim of a trade secret
misappropriation brought by Vermont Microsystems, Inc. ("VMI"). The Company
appealed that judgment and, upon remand to the Federal District Court, a reduced
judgment was entered against the Company in the amount of $14.2 million plus
interest. On February 23, 1998, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
reduced the judgment to $7.8 million. Because the case is still subject to post
judgment motions and appeals, the Company has not reflected the reduction of
damages in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.


ITEM 4.       SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 1998.

 
Executive Officers of the Registrant
- ------------------------------------

The following sets forth certain information regarding the executive officers of
the Company as of April 21, 1998:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

          NAME             AGE                     POSITION
          ----             ---                     --------
<S>                        <C>  <C>    
Carol A. Bartz .........   49   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
                                Officer
Eric B. Herr ...........   49   President and Chief Operating Officer
Joseph H. Astroth, Ph.D.   42   Vice President, GIS Market Group
Carl Bass ..............   40   Vice President, Engineering and Chief Technical 
                                Officer
Steve Cakebread ........   46   Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
James D. D'Arezzo ......   46   Vice President, Corporate Marketing
Dominic J. Gallello ....   42   Vice President, Mechanical CAD Market Group
Stephen McMahon ........   56   Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities
Tom Norring ............   52   Vice President, Asia Pacific
Michelle Pharr .........   49   Vice President, the Americas
Marcia K. Sterling .....   54   Vice President, Business Development and 
                                General Counsel
Godfrey R. Sullivan ....   43   Vice President, Personal Solutions Group
Michael E. Sutton ......   53   Vice President, Europe/Middle East/Africa
</TABLE>

     CAROL A. BARTZ joined the Company in April 1992 and has served as Chief
Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board since May 1992. Ms. Bartz served as
President from May 1992 through September 1996. Ms. Bartz is a director of
AirTouch Communications, Inc., Network Appliance, Inc., and BEA Systems, Inc.

     ERIC B. HERR has been Autodesk's President and Chief Operating Officer
since September 1996, having also served as the Acting Vice President, AEC
Market Group, from September 1996 through March 1997. Mr. Herr served as the
Chief Financial Officer from the time he joined the Company in May 1992 until
September 1996. From December 1992 through January 1995, Mr. Herr served as Vice
President, Emerging Businesses. From January 1995 to May 1995, Mr. Herr served
as Vice President, Finance and Administration.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
     DR. JOSEPH H. ASTROTH has served as Vice President, GIS Market Group, since
joining the Company in January 1996. From September 1989 through December 1995,
Dr. Astroth held various positions with Graphic Data Systems Corporation
including Director, Environmental Market Group, from January 1993 to June 1994,
and Vice President of Product Management, Engineering, from June 1994 to
December 1995.

     CARL BASS was named Vice President of Engineering in October 1997. He was
named Chief Technical Officer in December 1996. From November 1995 to December
1996, Mr. Bass served as a Senior Technical Fellow for the AutoCAD family of
products. Mr. Bass served as Chief Architect for AutoCAD from September 1993 to
October 1995. Before joining Autodesk, Mr. Bass was cofounder and Chief
Technical Officer of Ithaca Software from May 1986 to August 1993.

     STEVE CAKEBREAD joined the Company in April 1997 as Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer. From April 1993 through March 1997 he served as Vice
President, Finance World Trade Corporation at Silicon Graphics. Mr. Cakebread
held various finance and general management positions at Hewlett-Packard from
January 1972 through March 1993.

     JAMES D. D'AREZZO has served as Vice President, Corporate Marketing, since
joining Autodesk in February 1994. Mr. D'Arezzo served as Vice President, Data
Management Market Group, from February 1996 through September 1996. From
February 1994 through December 1995, Mr. D'Arezzo served as Vice President,
Corporate Marketing, and Vice President, GIS and DM Market Groups. From November
1993 to January 1994, Mr. D'Arezzo served as the Vice President of Corporate
Business Development for Banyan Systems. From July 1990 to November 1993, Mr.
D'Arezzo served as Banyan's Vice President of Marketing.

     DOMINIC J. GALLELLO has served as Vice President, MCAD Market Group since
January 1995. Mr. Gallello served as Vice President, Asia Pacific, from the time
he joined Autodesk in October 1992 until July 1996. From February 1995 to August
1995, Mr. Gallello served as Acting Vice President, MCAD Market Group.

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
     STEPHEN MCMAHON has served as Vice President, Human Resources, since
joining Autodesk in July 1992. From July 1987 to July 1992, Mr. McMahon served
as Senior Director, Human Resources, for Apple Computer, Inc.

     TOM NORRING has served as Vice President, Asia Pacific, since joining
Autodesk in June 1996. Prior to joining Autodesk, Mr. Norring served as Vice
President of Asia Pacific and Latin America and in a variety of international
management positions for Hitachi Data Systems from 1978 to 1996.

     MICHELLE PHARR was appointed Vice President, the Americas, in October
1997. Ms. Pharr joined Autodesk in November 1995 as Regional Director of the
Western Region of the United States. Before joining Autodesk, Ms. Pharr was
the Director of Western Operations at Aspect Development from July 1993 to
November 1995.

     MARCIA K. STERLING joined Autodesk in October 1995 as Vice President,
Business Development and General Counsel. From September 1982 to October 1995,
she practiced corporate and securities law at Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati,
where she was a member.

     GODFREY R. SULLIVAN was named Vice President, Personal Solutions Group, in
September 1997. Mr. Sullivan served as Vice President, the Americas, since
joining Autodesk in October 1992 and as Acting Vice President, AEC/FM Market
Group, from February 1995 to September 1995.

     MICHAEL E. SUTTON has served as Vice President, Europe/Middle East/Africa,
since June 1993. Mr. Sutton joined Autodesk in October 1987 as a sales and
marketing director in the United Kingdom. Mr. Sutton was the Managing Director
of Autodesk's United Kingdom subsidiary from January 1990 to January 1992. From
January 1992 to February 1993, Mr. Sutton served as Northern Region Manager,
Europe, and from February 1993 to May 1993, he served as Acting Vice President,
Europe.

     There is no family relationship among any of the directors or executive
officers of Autodesk.



                                   PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
          MATTERS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page
53 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page
21 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
22 through 32 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
33 through 51 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                  PART III


Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Report in that the
Registrant will file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A
(the "Proxy Statement") not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year
covered by this Report and certain information included therein is incorporated
herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that
specifically address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference.
Such incorporation does not include the Compensation Committee Report or the
Performance Graph included in the Proxy Statement.


ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information concerning the Company's directors required by this Item is
incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement.

The information concerning the Company's executive officers required by this
Item is incorporated by reference herein to the section of this Report in Part
I, Item 4, entitled "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

The information regarding compliance with Section 16 of the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 is to be set forth in the Proxy Statement and is hereby
incorporated by reference.


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement.


ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement.


ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement.



                                   PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:

1.   Financial Statements: The following Consolidated Financial Statements
     of Autodesk, Inc., and Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent
     Auditors, are incorporated by reference to pages 33 through 51 of the
     Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders:

     Consolidated Statement of Income--Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 1998, 
     1997, and 1996

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
     Consolidated Balance Sheet--January 31, 1998 and 1997

     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows--Fiscal Years Ended January 31, 1998, 
     1997, and 1996

     Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity--Three Year Period Ended 
     January 31, 1998

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

     Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

2.   Financial Statement Schedule: The following financial statement schedule of
     Autodesk, Inc., for the fiscal years ended January 31, 1998, 1997, and
     1996, is filed as part of this Report and should be read in conjunction
     with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Autodesk, Inc.

     Schedule II         Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.................. S-1


     Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not
     applicable or are not required or the information required to be set forth
     therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes
     thereto.

3.   Exhibits: The Exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits
     immediately following the financial statement schedules are filed as part
     of, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

        Exhibit
          No.                          Description
        -------                        ----------- 
        <C>         <S>    
         3.1        Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of 
                    Registrant
         3.2(1)     Certificate  of  Designation of Rights, Preferences, and 
                    Privileges of Series A  Participating Preferred Stock of 
                    Autodesk, Inc.
         3.3        Bylaws of Registrant, as amended
         4.1(2)     Preferred Shares Right Agreement dated December 14, 1995
         4.2(2)     Amendment No. 1 to Rights Agreement
        10.1(3)*    Registrant's 1987 Stock Option Plan, as amended
        10.2(3)*    Registrant's Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan and form
                    of Subscription Agreement, as amended
        10.3   *    Registrant's 1990 Directors' Option Plan, as amended
        10.4   *    Registrant's 1996 Stock Plan, as amended
        10.5(4)*    Form of  Indemnification  Agreement  executed  by the  
                    Company  and  each of its officers and directors
        10.6(5)*    Agreement between Registrant and Carol A. Bartz dated 
                    April 7, 1992
        10.7(6)     Teleos Research 1996 Stock Plan
        10.8(7)     Registrant's Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, as amended
        10.9(8)     Softdesk, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan
        10.10(8)    Softdesk, Inc. 1993 Director Stock Option Plan
        10.11(8)    Softdesk, Inc. 1993 Equity Incentive Plan
        10.12 *     Registrant's 1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan
        10.13(9)    Agreement and Plan of Reorganization By and Among Autodesk, 
                    Inc., Autodesk Acquisition Corporation, and Softdesk, Inc.,
                    dated December 10, 1996, as amended December 19, 1996
        13.1        Pages 33 through 53 of the Registrant's Annual Report to
                    Stockholders for the year ended January 31, 1998 (to be
                    deemed filed only to the extent required by the instructions
                    to exhibits for reports on Form 10-K)
        21.1        List of Subsidiaries
        23.1        Consent of Independent Auditors (included on page 18 of this
                    Report)
        24.1        Power of Attorney (included on page 17 of this Report) 
        27.1        Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>

                                       15
 
<PAGE>
 
     (1)  Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the Registrant's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1997.

     (2)  Incorporated by reference to the Registrant's Report on Form 8-A filed
          on January 5, 1996, as amended on January 8, 1996 and January 15, 
          1998.

     (3)  Incorporated  by reference to the exhibit filed with the  Registrant's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1996.

     (4)  Incorporated  by reference to the exhibit filed with the  Registrant's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1995.

     (5)  Incorporated  by reference to the exhibit filed with the  Registrant's
          Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 1992.
    
     (6)  Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the Registrant's
          Report on Form S-8 filed on July 23, 1996.

     (7)  Incorporated  by reference to the exhibit filed with the  Registration
          Statement on Form S-8 filed on January 28, 1998.

     (8)  Incorporated by reference to the exhibit filed with the Registrant's 
          Report on Form S-8 filed on April 3, 1997.

     (9)  Incorporated  by reference to the exhibit filed with the  Registration
          Statement on Form S-4 filed on March 3, 1997. 

     *    Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K: No report on Form 8-K was filed by the Company during
     the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 1998.

     With the exception of the information incorporated by reference to the
     Annual Report to Stockholders in Items 5, 6, 7, and 8 of Part II and Item
     14 of Part IV of this Form 10-K, the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
     Stockholders is not to be deemed filed as a part of this Report.

     Autodesk, the Autodesk logo, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD Map, AutoSketch,
     Kinetix, Mechanical Desktop, Picture This Home!, PlantSpec, 3D Studio MAX,
     AutoLISP, AutoCAD Development System, Autodesk View, Softdesk, Autodesk
     University, and DesignBlocks are registered trademarks, and Autodesk
     MapGuide, Autodesk World, Bringing Information Down to Earth, Character
     Studio, Design Your World, ObjectARX, 3D Studio VIZ, Autodesk WalkThrough,
     AutoSnap, AUGI, and Auto-Architect are trademarks of Autodesk, Inc. in the
     USA and/or other countries. Microsoft, Windows, and Windows NT are
     registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. All other brand names,
     product names, or trademarks belong to their respective holders.

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
                                 SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                 AUTODESK, INC.

                                        By: /s/ CAROL A. BARTZ
                                        ----------------------
                                        Carol A. Bartz
                                        Chairman of the Board
     Dated: April 24, 1998


                              POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Carol A. Bartz as his or her attorney-in-fact,
each with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities,
to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with
exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

        Signature                       Title                         Date
- --------------------------   ---------------------------         --------------

/s/ CAROL A. BARTZ           Chief Executive Officer and         April 24, 1998
- --------------------------   Director (Principal Executive
Carol A. Bartz               Officer)                      
                                                           

/s/ STEVE CAKEBREAD          Vice President                      April 24, 1998 
- --------------------------   and Chief Financial Officer  
Steve Cakebread              (Principal Financial Officer)        
                             

/s/ DAVID S. OPPENHEIMER     Vice President, Finance             April 24, 1998
- --------------------------   (Principal Accounting Officer) 
David S. Oppenheimer         

/s/ MARK A. BERTELSEN        Director                            Apri1 24, 1998
- --------------------------
Mark A. Bertelsen

/s/ CRAWFORD W. BEVERIDGE    Director                            April 24, 1998
- --------------------------
Crawford W. Beveridge

/s/ J. HALLAM DAWSON         Director                            April 24, 1998
- --------------------------
J. Hallam Dawson

/s/ PAUL OTELLINI            Director                            April 24, 1998
- --------------------------
Paul Otellini

/s/ MORTON L. TOPFER         Director                            April 24, 1998
- --------------------------
Morton L. Topfer

/s/ MARY ALICE TAYLOR        Director                            April 24, 1998
- --------------------------
Mary Alice Taylor

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Autodesk, Inc. of our report dated February 24, 1998, included in the 1998
Annual Report to Stockholders of Autodesk, Inc.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of Autodesk, Inc.
listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits.
In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 No. 33-15675, No. 33-22656, No. 33-39458, No. 33-41265, No. 33-51110,
No. 33-54683, No. 33-61015, No. 333-08693, No. 333-15037, No. 333-24469, and No.
333-45045) pertaining to the 1987 Stock Option Plan, 1990 Directors' Option
Plan, 1996 Stock Plan, the Autodesk, Inc. Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan, and
Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan of Autodesk, Inc., the Teleos Research
1996 Stock Plan and the Softdesk, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, Softdesk, Inc.
1993 Director Stock Option Plan and Softdesk, Inc. 1993 Equity Incentive Plan of
our report dated February 24, 1998, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements incorporated herein by reference, and our report included in the
preceding paragraph with respect to the financial statement schedule included in
this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Autodesk, Inc.



                                           /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP


                                               ERNST & YOUNG LLP

San Jose, California
April 23, 1998

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
                                                                   Schedule II


                               AUTODESK, INC.

                      VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         Additions--
                                                       Balance at        Charged to                            Balance
                                                        Beginning         Costs and         Deductions         at End
             Description                                 of Year          Expenses          Write-Offs         of Year
     ----------------------------------------          -----------       -----------       ------------      -----------  
     <S>                                               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>    
     Fiscal year ended January 31, 1998
         Allowance for doubtful accounts               $ 6,635,000       $ 3,701,000       $ 3,200,000       $ 7,136,000
         Allowance for stock balancing and
           product rotation                            $17,175,000       $38,419,000       $35,375,000       $20,219,000

     Fiscal year ended January 31, 1997
         Allowance for doubtful accounts                $6,731,000       $ 1,735,000       $ 1,831,000       $ 6,635,000
         Allowance for stock balancing and
           product rotation                            $14,607,000       $46,884,000       $44,316,000       $17,175,000

     Fiscal year ended January 31, 1996
         Allowance for doubtful accounts                $6,457,000       $ 3,527,000       $ 3,253,000       $ 6,731,000
         Allowance for stock balancing and
           product rotation                             $6,892,000       $58,889,000       $51,174,000       $14,607,000
</TABLE>

                                      S-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 3.1 


                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                          CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                       OF
                                 AUTODESK, INC.

                    (Pursuant to Sections 242 and 245 of the
                General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware)

         Carol A. Bartz and Marcia K. Sterling each hereby certifies:

         (1) They are the Chief Executive Officer and Secretary, respectively,
of Autodesk, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "General Corporation Law");

         (2) The original Certificate of Incorporation of this corporation,
originally filed on May 10, 1994, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety
to read as follows:

FIRST:                     The name of this corporation is Autodesk, Inc. 
                           (the "Corporation").

SECOND:                    The address of the Corporation's registered office in
                           the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center,
                           1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County
                           of New Castle, zip code 19801. The name of its
                           registered agent at such address is The Corporation
                           Trust Company.

THIRD:                     The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any 
                           lawful act or activity for which corporations may be
                           organized under the General Corporation Law of 
                           Delaware.

FOURTH:                    The Corporation is authorized to issue two classes of
                           stock to be designated respectively Common Stock and
                           Preferred Stock. The total number of shares of all
                           classes of stock which the Corporation has authority
                           to issue is Two Hundred Fifty-Two Million
                           (252,000,000), consisting of Two Hundred Fifty
                           Million (250,000,000) shares of Common Stock, $0.01
                           par value (the "Common Stock"), and Two Million
                           (2,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, $0.01 par
                           value (the "Preferred Stock").

                           The Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time
                           in one or more series. The Board of Directors is
                           hereby authorized subject to limitations prescribed
                           by law, to fix by resolution or resolutions the
                           designations, powers, preferences and rights, and the
                           qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof,
                           of each such series of Preferred Stock, including
                           without limitation authority to fix by resolution or
                           resolutions, the dividend rights, dividend rate,
                           conversion rights, voting rights, rights and terms of
                           redemption (including sinking fund provisions),
                           redemption price or prices, and liquidation
                           preferences of any wholly unissued series of
                           Preferred Stock, and the number of shares
                           constituting any such series and the designation
                           thereof, or any of the
<PAGE>
 
                           foregoing.

                           The Board of Directors is further authorized to
                           increase (but not above the total number of
                           authorized shares of the class) or decrease (but not
                           below the number of shares of any such series then
                           outstanding) the number of shares of any series, the
                           number of which was fixed by it, subsequent to the
                           issue of shares of such series then outstanding,
                           subject to the powers, preferences and rights, and
                           the qualifications, limitations and restrictions
                           thereof stated in the resolution of the Board of
                           Directors originally fixing the number of shares of
                           such series. If the number of shares of any series is
                           so decreased, then the shares constituting such
                           decrease shall resume the status which they had prior
                           to the adoption of the resolution originally fixing
                           the number of shares of such series.

FIFTH:                     The Corporation is to have perpetual existence.

SIXTH:                     The election of directors need not be by written
                           ballot unless a stockholder demands election by
                           written ballot at a meeting of stockholders and
                           before voting begins or unless the Bylaws of the
                           Corporation shall so provide.

SEVENTH:                   The number of directors which constitute the whole 
                           Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be 
                           designated in the Bylaws of the Corporation.

EIGHTH:                    In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers 
                           conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the 
                           Board of Directors is expressly authorized to adopt,
                           alter, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation.

NINTH:                     To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware
                           General Corporation Law as the same exists or may
                           hereafter be amended, no director of the Corporation
                           shall be personally liable to the Corporation or its
                           stockholders for monetary damages for breach of
                           fiduciary duty as a director.

                           Neither any amendment nor repeal of this Article, nor
                           the adoption of any provision of this Amended and
                           Restated Certificate of Incorporation inconsistent
                           with this Article, shall eliminate or reduce the
                           effect of this Article in respect of any matter
                           occurring, or any cause of action, suit or claim
                           that, but for this Article, would accrue or arise,
                           prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an
                           inconsistent provision.

TENTH:                     At the election of directors of the Corporation, each
                           holder of stock of any class or series shall be 
                           entitled to one vote for each share held.  No 
                           stockholder will be permitted to cumulate votes at 
                           any election of directors.

ELEVENTH:                  Meetings of stockholders may be held within or
                           without the State of Delaware, as the Bylaws may
                           provide. The books of the Corporation may be kept
<PAGE>
 
                           (subject to any provision contained in the laws of
                           the State of Delaware) outside of the State of
                           Delaware at such place or places as may be designated
                           from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the
                           Bylaws of the Corporation.

TWELFTH:                   The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter,
                           change or repeal any provision contained in this
                           Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, in
                           the manner now or hereafter prescribed by the laws of
                           the State of Delaware, and all rights conferred
                           herein are granted subject to this reservation.

         (3) This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been
duly adopted by the Board of Directors of this Corporation in accordance with
Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law.

         (4) This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been
duly approved, in accordance with Section 242 of the General Corporation Law, by
vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock entitled to vote
thereon.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Amended and
Restated Certificate of Incorporation on this 16th day of April, 1998.


                                         /s/ CAROL A. BARTZ
                                         ------------------
                                         Carol A. Bartz
                                         Chief Executive Officer

/s/ MARCIA K. STERLING
- ----------------------
Marcia K. Sterling
Secretary
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.3
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>BYLAWS OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 3.3 


                                   BYLAWS


                                     OF


                               AUTODESK, INC.*
                          (A DELAWARE CORPORATION)





- ----------------------------------
*As Amended through December 12, 1997
<PAGE>
 
                                  BYLAWS OF
                               AUTODESK, INC.
                          (a Delaware corporation)



                              TABLE OF CONTENTS
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Page
                                                                ---- 
<S>                                                             <C>
ARTICLE I    CORPORATE OFFICES................................   1
 
        1.1  REGISTERED OFFICE................................   1
        1.2  OTHER OFFICES....................................   1
 
ARTICLE II   MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS.........................   1
 
        2.1  PLACE OF MEETINGS................................   1
        2.2  ANNUAL MEETING...................................   1
        2.3  SPECIAL MEETING..................................   2
        2.4  NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS.................   2
        2.5  ADVANCE NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER NOMINEES AND
             STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS.............................   2
        2.6  MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE.....   3
        2.7  QUORUM...........................................   3
        2.8  ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE........................   4
        2.9  VOTING...........................................   4
        2.10 STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A
             MEETING..........................................   4
        2.11 RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING.......   5
        2.12 PROXIES..........................................   5
        2.13 ORGANIZATION.....................................   5
        2.14 LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE............   6
  
ARTICLE III  DIRECTORS........................................   6
 
        3.1  POWERS...........................................   6
        3.2  NUMBER OF DIRECTORS..............................   6
        3.3  ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS.........   6
        3.4  RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES........................   6
        3.5  REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS.............................   8
        3.6  PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE.........   8
        3.7  FIRST MEETINGS...................................   8
        3.8  REGULAR MEETINGS.................................   8
        3.9  SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE.........................   9
        3.10 QUORUM...........................................   9
        3.11 WAIVER OF NOTICE.................................   9
        3.12 ADJOURNMENT......................................   9
        3.13 NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT............................  10
</TABLE> 
<PAGE>
 
        3.14 BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING  10
        3.15 FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS...............  10
        3.16 APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS....................  10
        3.17 SOLE DIRECTOR PROVIDED BY CERTIFICATE OF
             INCORPORATION....................................  10
  
ARTICLE IV   COMMITTEES.......................................  11
 
        4.1  COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS..........................  11
        4.2  MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES................  11
        4.3  COMMITTEE MINUTES................................  12
 
ARTICLE V  OFFICERS...........................................  12
 
        5.1  OFFICERS.........................................  12
        5.2  ELECTION OF OFFICERS.............................  12
        5.3  SUBORDINATE OFFICERS.............................  12
        5.4  REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS..............  13
        5.5  VACANCIES IN OFFICES.............................  13
        5.6  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD............................  13
        5.7  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER..........................  13
        5.8  PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER............  14
        5.9  VICE PRESIDENTS..................................  14
        5.10 SECRETARY........................................  14
        5.11 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER..........................  15
        5.12 ASSISTANT SECRETARY..............................  15
        5.13 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS..........................  15
        5.14 AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS.................  16
 
ARTICLE VI   INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, 
             EMPLOYEES AND OTHER AGENTS.......................  16
 
        6.1  INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS........  16
        6.2  INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS........................  17
        6.3  INSURANCE........................................  17
 
ARTICLE VII  RECORDS AND REPORTS..............................  17
 
        7.1  MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS............  17
        7.2  INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS..........................  18
        7.3  ANNUAL STATEMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS.................  18
        7.4  REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS...  18
        7.5  CERTIFICATION AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS...........  18
 
 
ARTICLE VIII GENERAL MATTERS..................................  19
 
        8.1  RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND
             VOTING...........................................  19
        8.2  CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCES OF INDEBTEDNESS........  19
<PAGE>
 
        8.3  CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS:  HOW
             EXECUTED.........................................  19
        8.4  STOCK CERTIFICATES; TRANSFER; PARTLY PAID SHARES.  19
        8.5  SPECIAL DESIGNATION ON CERTIFICATES..............  20
        8.6  LOST CERTIFICATES................................  21
        8.7  TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS...................  21
        8.8  CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS........................  21
 
ARTICLE IX   AMENDMENTS.......................................  21
<PAGE>
 
                                                                   

                                   BYLAWS
                                   ------

                                     OF
                                     --

                               AUTODESK, INC.
                               --------------
                          (a Delaware corporation)



                                  ARTICLE I



                              CORPORATE OFFICES
                              -----------------


     I.1  REGISTERED OFFICE
          -----------------

     The registered office of the corporation shall be fixed in the certificate
of incorporation of the corporation.

     I.2  OTHER OFFICES
          -------------

     The board of directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate
offices at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to do
business.


                                 ARTICLE II


                          MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
                          ------------------------

     II.1  PLACE OF MEETINGS
           -----------------

     Meetings of stockholders shall be held at any place within or outside the
State of Delaware designated by the board of directors.  In the absence of any
such designation, stockholders' meetings shall be held at the principal
executive office of the corporation.


     II.2  ANNUAL MEETING
           --------------

     The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held each year on a date and at
a time designated by the board of directors.  In the absence of such
designation, the annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on the third
Friday in June in each year at 3:00 p.m.  However, if such day falls on a legal
holiday, then the meeting shall be held at the same time and place on the next
succeeding full business day.  At the meeting, directors shall be elected, and
any other proper business may be transacted.


     II.3  SPECIAL MEETING
           ---------------
<PAGE>
 
     A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the
board of directors, or by the chairman of the board, or by the president, or by
one or more stockholders holding shares in the aggregate entitled to cast not
less than ten percent (10%) of the votes of all shares of stock owned by
stockholders entitled to vote at that meeting.


     II.4  NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDERS' MEETINGS
           --------------------------------

     All notices of meetings of stockholders shall be sent or otherwise given in
accordance with Section 2.5 of these bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than
sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting.  The notice shall specify the
place, date and hour of the meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting,
the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called (no business other than
that specified in the notice may be transacted) or (ii) in the case of the
annual meeting, those matters which the board of directors, at the time of
giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders (but any
proper matter may be presented at the meeting for such action).  The notice of
any meeting at which directors are to be elected shall include the name of any
nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, the board intends to present
for election.


     II.5  ADVANCE NOTICE OF STOCKHOLDER NOMINEES AND STOCKHOLDER BUSINESS
           ---------------------------------------------------------------

     To be properly brought before an annual meeting or special meeting,
nominations for the election of director or other business must be (a) specified
in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the
direction of the board of directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the
meeting by or at the direction of the board of directors or (c) otherwise
properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder.  For such nominations or
other business to be considered properly brought before the meeting by a
stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice and in proper form
of his intent to bring such business before such meeting.  To be timely, such
stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received by the
secretary of the Corporation not less than 90 days prior to the meeting;
provided, however, that in the case of a meeting called by or on behalf of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation where prior notice, or public disclosure,
of the meeting has not been given or made at least 100 days prior to such
meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not later
than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such
notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made.
To be in proper form, a stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth:

           (i)  the name and address of the stockholder who intends to make the
nominations, propose the business, and, as the case may be, the name and address
of the person or persons to be nominated or the nature of the business to be
proposed;

           (ii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of
stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and, if applicable,
intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or
persons specified in the notice or introduce the 

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
business specified in the notice;



           (iii)  if applicable, a description of all arrangements or
understandings between the stockholder and each nominee and any other person
or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or
nominations are to be made by the stockholder;

           (iv)   such other information regarding each nominee or each matter
of business to be proposed by such stockholder as would be required to be
included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the
Securities and Exchange Commission had the nominee been nominated, or intended
to be nominated, or the matter been proposed, or intended to be proposed by
the board of directors' and

           (v)    if applicable, the consent of each nominee to serve as
director of the Corporation if so elected.

     The chairman of the meeting may refuse to acknowledge the nomination of any
person or the proposal of any business not made in compliance with the foregoing
procedure.


     II.6  MANNER OF GIVING NOTICE; AFFIDAVIT OF NOTICE
           --------------------------------------------

     Written notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given either
personally or by first-class mail or by telegraphic or other written
communication.  Notices not personally delivered shall be sent charges prepaid
and shall be addressed to the stockholder at the address of that stockholder
appearing on the books of the corporation or given by the stockholder to the
corporation for the purpose of notice.  Notice shall be deemed to have been
given at the time when delivered personally or deposited in the mail or sent by
telegram or other means of written communication.

     An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any
stockholders' meeting, executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or any
transfer agent of the corporation giving the notice, shall be prima facie
evidence of the giving of such notice.


     II.7  QUORUM
           ------

     The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and
outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by
proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the
transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or by the
certificate of incorporation.  If, however, such quorum is not present or
represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of
the meeting or (ii) the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person
or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting in accordance
with Section 2.7 of these bylaws.

     When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a
majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by
proxy shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question
is one upon which, by express provision of the laws of the State of Delaware or
of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, a different vote is
required, in 

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the
question.

     If a quorum be initially present, the stockholders may continue to transact
business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough
stockholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken is approved by a
majority of the stockholders initially constituting the quorum.


     II.8  ADJOURNED MEETING; NOTICE
           -------------------------

     When a meeting is adjourned to another time and place, unless these bylaws
otherwise require, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time
and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is
taken.  At the adjourned meeting the corporation may transact any business that
might have been transacted at the original meeting.  If the adjournment is for
more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is
fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be
given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.


     II.9  VOTING
           ------

     The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be
determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.11 of these bylaws,
subject to the provisions of Sections 217 and 218 of the General Corporation Law
of Delaware (relating to voting rights of fiduciaries, pledgors and joint
owners, and to voting trusts and other voting agreements).

     Except as may be otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or
these bylaws, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote for each share of
capital stock held by such stockholder.


     II.10  STOCKHOLDER ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
            -------------------------------------------------------

     Any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special
meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and
without a vote, if a consent or consents in writing setting forth the action so
taken shall be signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than
the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such
action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present
and voted.  Such consents shall be delivered to the corporation by delivery to
it registered office in the state of Delaware, its principal place of business,
or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which
proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded.  Delivery made to a
corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested.


     II.11  RECORD DATE FOR STOCKHOLDER NOTICE; VOTING
            ------------------------------------------

     For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of any
meeting or to vote thereat, the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record
date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the
record date is adopted by the board of directors and which shall not be more
than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any such
meeting, and 

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
in such event only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to
notice and to vote, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of
the corporation after the record date.

     If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, the record date
for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of
stockholders shall be at the close of business on the business day next
preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the
close of business on the business day next preceding the day on which the
meeting is held.

     A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote
at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting
unless the board of directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting,
but the board of directors shall fix a new record date if the meeting is
adjourned for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original
meeting.

     The record date for any other purpose shall be as provided in Section 8.1
of these bylaws.


     II.12  PROXIES
            -------

     Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall
have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by
a written proxy signed by the person and filed with the secretary of the
corporation, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3)
years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  A proxy
shall be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether
by manual signature, typewriting, telegraphic transmission, telefacsimile or
otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact.  The
revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be
governed by the provisions of Section 212(e) of the General Corporation Law of
Delaware.


     II.13  ORGANIZATION
            ------------

     The president, or in the absence of the president, the chairman of the
board, shall call the meeting of the stockholders to order, and shall act as
chairman of the meeting.  In the absence of the president, the chairman of the
board, and all of the vice presidents, the stockholders shall appoint a chairman
for such meeting.  The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine
the order of business and the procedures at the meeting, including such matters
as the regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of business.  The
secretary of the corporation shall act as secretary of all meetings of the
stockholders, but in the absence of the secretary at any meeting of the
stockholders, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as
secretary of the meeting.


     II.14  LIST OF STOCKHOLDERS ENTITLED TO VOTE
            -------------------------------------

     The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall
prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a
complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in
alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number
of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open
to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting,
during ordinary business 

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
hours, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, either at
a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be
specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place
where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at
the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be
inspected by any stockholder who is present.


                                 ARTICLE III


                                  DIRECTORS
                                  ---------


     III.1  POWERS
            ------

     Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and to
any limitations in the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws relating to
action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares,
the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed and all corporate
powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the board of directors.


     III.2  NUMBER OF DIRECTORS
            -------------------

     The board of directors shall consist of seven (7) members.  The number of
directors may be changed by an amendment to this bylaw, duly adopted by the
board of directors or by the stockholders, or by a duly adopted amendment to the
certificate of incorporation.


     III.3  ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF DIRECTORS
            ----------------------------------------

     Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these bylaws, directors shall be
elected at each annual meeting of stockholders to hold office until the next
annual meeting. Each director, including a director elected or appointed to fill
a vacancy, shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which elected
and until a successor has been elected and qualified.


     III.4  RESIGNATION AND VACANCIES
            -------------------------

     Any director may resign effective on giving written notice to the chairman
of the board, the president, the secretary or the board of directors, unless the
notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective.  If the
resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the board of directors
may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.

     Vacancies in the board of directors may be filled by a majority of the
remaining directors, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining
director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote of
the stockholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of
a majority of the shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which
a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a
majority of the required 

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
quorum). Each director so elected shall hold office until the next annual
meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and
qualified.

     Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation or these
bylaws:

          (i)   Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any
increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the
stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a
majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a
sole remaining director.

          (ii)  Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series
thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the
certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such
class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected
by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole
remaining director so elected.

     If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, the
corporation should have no directors in office, then any officer or any
stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder,
or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate
of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with
the provisions of the certificate of incorporation or these bylaws, or may apply
to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided
in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.

     If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship,
the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole board
(as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of
Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at
least ten (10) percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding
having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be
held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace
the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which
election shall be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General
Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.


     III.5  REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS
            --------------------

     Unless otherwise restricted by statute, by the certificate of incorporation
or by these bylaws, any director or the entire board of directors may be
removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then
entitled to vote at an election of directors; provided, however, that, if and so
long as stockholders of the corporation are entitled to cumulative voting, if
less than the entire board is to be removed, no director may be removed without
cause if the votes cast against his removal would be sufficient to elect him if
then cumulatively voted at an election of the entire board of directors.


     III.6  PLACE OF MEETINGS; MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE
            ----------------------------------------

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
     Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held at any place within
or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by
resolution of the board.  In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings
shall be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.  Special
meetings of the board may be held at any place within or outside the State of
Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated
in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of the
corporation.

     Any meeting of the board, regular or special, may be held by conference
telephone or similar communication equipment, so long as all directors
participating in the meeting can hear one another; and all such participating
directors shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.


     III.7  FIRST MEETINGS
            --------------

     The first meeting of each newly elected board of directors shall be held at
such time and place as shall be fixed by the vote of the stockholders at the
annual meeting.  In the event of the failure of the stockholders to fix the time
or place of such first meeting of the newly elected board of directors, or in
the event such meeting is not held at the time and place so fixed by the
stockholders, the meeting may be held at such time and place as shall be
specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the
board of directors, or as shall be specified in a written waiver signed by all
of the directors.


     III.8  REGULAR MEETINGS
            ----------------

     Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held without notice at
such time as shall from time to time be determined by the board of directors.
If any regular meeting day shall fall on a legal holiday, then the meeting shall
be held at the same time and place on the next succeeding full business day.


     III.9  SPECIAL MEETINGS; NOTICE
            ------------------------

     Special meetings of the board of directors for any purpose or purposes may
be called at any time by the chairman of the board, the president, any vice
president, the secretary or any two directors.

     Notice of the time and place of special meetings shall be delivered
personally or by telephone to each director or sent by first-class mail,
telecopy or telegram, charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that
director's address as it is shown on the records of the corporation.  If the
notice is mailed, it shall be deposited in the United States mail at least four
(4) days before the time of the holding of the meeting.  If the notice is
delivered personally or by telephone, telecopy or telegram, it shall be
delivered personally or by telephone or to the telegraph company at least forty-
eight (48) hours before the time of the holding of the meeting.  Any oral notice
given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or
to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has
reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director.  The 

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
notice need not specify the purpose or the place of the meeting, if the
meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of the corporation.


     III.10  QUORUM
             ------

     A majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business, except to adjourn as provided in Section 3.12
of these bylaws.  Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the
directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present shall be
regarded as the act of the board of directors, subject to the provisions of the
certificate of incorporation and applicable law.

     A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact
business notwithstanding the withdrawal of directors, if any action taken is
approved by at least a majority of the quorum for that meeting.


     III.11  WAIVER OF NOTICE
             ----------------

     Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director (i) who signs a
waiver of notice, whether before or after the meeting, or (ii) who attends the
meeting other than for the express purposed of objecting at the beginning of the
meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully
called or convened.  All such waivers shall be filed with the corporate records
or made part of the minutes of the meeting.  A waiver of notice need not specify
the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors.


     III.12  ADJOURNMENT
             -----------

     A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum,
may adjourn any meeting of the board to another time and place.


     III.13  NOTICE OF ADJOURNMENT
             ---------------------

     Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting of the board
need not be given unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24)
hours.  If the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, then
notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting shall be given before the
adjourned meeting takes place, in the manner specified in Section 3.9 of these
bylaws, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.


     III.14  BOARD ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT WITHOUT A MEETING
             -------------------------------------------------

     Any action required or permitted to be taken by the board of directors may
be taken without a meeting, provided that all members of the board individually
or collectively consent in writing to that action.  Such action by written
consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the board of
directors. Such written consent and any counterparts thereof shall be filed with
the minutes of the proceedings of the board of directors.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>
 
     III.15  FEES AND COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS
             ----------------------------------

     Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any,
for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or
determined by resolution of the board of directors.  This Section 3.15 shall not
be construed to preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other
capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation
for those services.


     III.16  APPROVAL OF LOANS TO OFFICERS
             -----------------------------

     The corporation may lend money to, or guarantee any obligation of, or
otherwise assist any officer or other employee of the corporation or any of its
subsidiaries, including any officer or employee who is a director of the
corporation or any of its subsidiaries, whenever, in the judgment of the
directors, such loan, guaranty or assistance may reasonably be expected to
benefit the corporation.  The loan, guaranty or other assistance may be with or
without interest and may be unsecured, or secured in such manner as the board of
directors shall approve, including, without limitation, a pledge of shares of
stock of the corporation.  Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
deny, limit or restrict the powers of guaranty or warranty of the corporation at
common law or under any statute.


     III.17  SOLE DIRECTOR PROVIDED BY CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
             ------------------------------------------------------

     In the event only one director is required by these bylaws or the
certificate of incorporation, then any reference herein to notices, waivers,
consents, meetings or other actions by a majority or quorum of the directors
shall be deemed to refer to such notice, waiver, etc., by such sole director,
who shall have all the rights and duties and shall be entitled to exercise all
of the powers and shall assume all the responsibilities otherwise herein
described as given to the board of directors.


                                 ARTICLE IV


                                 COMMITTEES
                                 ----------


     IV.1  COMMITTEES OF DIRECTORS
           -----------------------
 
     The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the
authorized number of directors, designate one (1) or more committees, each
consisting of one (1) or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the board.
The board may designate one (1) or more directors as alternate members of any
committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of
the committee.  The appointment of members or alternate members of a committee
requires the vote of a majority of the authorized number of directors.  Any
committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the board, shall have and
may exercise all the powers and authority of the board, but no such committee
shall have the power or authority to (i) amend the certificate of incorporation
(except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or
resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board
of directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the General Corporation Law of
Delaware, fix the designations and any of the preferences or rights of 

                                      -10-
<PAGE>
 
such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution
of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such
shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the
same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation), (ii) adopt an
agreement of merger or consolidation under Sections 251 or 252 of the General
Corporation Law of Delaware, (iii) recommend to the stockholders the sale,
lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property
and assets, (iv) recommend to the stockholders a dissolution of the
corporation or a revocation of a dissolution or (v) amend the bylaws of the
corporation; and, unless the board resolution establishing the committee, the
bylaws or the certificate of incorporation expressly so provide, no such
committee shall have the power or authority to declare a dividend, to
authorize the issuance of stock, or to adopt a certificate of ownership and
merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.


     IV.2  MEETINGS AND ACTION OF COMMITTEES
           ---------------------------------

     Meetings and actions of committees shall be governed by, and held and taken
in accordance with, the following provisions of Article III of these bylaws:
Section 3.6 (place of meetings; meetings by telephone), Section 3.8 (regular
meetings), Section 3.9 (special meetings; notice), Section 3.10 (quorum),
Section 3.11 (waiver of notice), Section 3.12 (adjournment), Section 3.13
(notice of adjournment) and Section 3.14 (board action by written consent
without meeting), with such changes in the context of those bylaws as are
necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the board of directors
and its members; provided, however, that the time of regular meetings of
committees may be determined either by resolution of the board of directors or
by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be
called by resolution of the board of directors, and that notice of special
meetings of committees shall also be given to all alternate members, who shall
have the right to attend all meetings of the committee.  The board of directors
may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the
provisions of these bylaws.


     IV.3  COMMITTEE MINUTES
           -----------------

     Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the
same to the board of directors when required.



                                  ARTICLE V


                                  OFFICERS
                                  --------


     V.1  OFFICERS
          --------

     The Corporate Officers of the corporation shall be a chief executive
officer, a president, a secretary and a chief financial officer.  The
corporation may also have, at the discretion of the board of directors, a
chairman of the board, one or more vice presidents (however denominated), one or
more assistant secretaries, one or more assistant treasurers, and such other
officers as may be 

                                      -11-
<PAGE>
 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 of these bylaws.
Any number of offices may be held by the same person.

     In addition to the Corporate Officers of the Company described above, there
may also be such Administrative (or non-executive) Officers of the corporation
as may be designated and appointed from time to time by the chief executive
officer of the corporation in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.13 of
these bylaws.


     V.2  ELECTION OF OFFICERS
          --------------------

     The Corporate Officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3 or Section 5.5 of
these bylaws, shall be chosen by the board of directors, subject to the rights,
if any, of an officer under any contract of employment, and shall hold their
respective offices for such terms as the board of directors may from time to
time determine.


     V.3  SUBORDINATE OFFICERS
          --------------------

     The board of directors may appoint, or may empower the chief executive
officer to appoint such executive officers who are not Corporate Officers as the
business of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such
period, have such power and authority, and perform such duties as are provided
in these bylaws or as the board of directors may from time to time determine.

     The chief executive officer may from time to time designate and appoint
Administrative (or non-executive) Officers of the corporation in accordance with
the provisions of Section 5.13 of these bylaws.


     V.4  REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION OF OFFICERS
          -----------------------------------
 
     Subject to the rights, if any, of an executive officer under any contract
of employment, any executive officer may be removed, either with or without
cause, by the board of directors at any regular or special meeting of the board
or, except in case of an executive officer chosen by the board of directors, by
any Corporate Officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the
board of directors.

     Any executive officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to
the corporation.  Any resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt
of that notice or at any later time specified in that notice; and, unless
otherwise specified in that notice, the acceptance of the resignation shall not
be necessary to make it effective.  Any resignation is without prejudice to the
rights, if any, of the corporation under any contract to which the executive
officer is a party.

     Any Administrative (or non-executive) Officer may be removed, either with
or without cause, at any time by the chief executive officer.  Any
Administrative (or non-executive) Officer may resign 

                                      -12-
<PAGE>
 
at any time by giving written notice to the chief executive officer or to the
secretary of the corporation.


     V.5  VACANCIES IN OFFICES
          --------------------

     A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal,
disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in
these bylaws for regular appointments to that office.


     V.6  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
          ---------------------

     The chairman of the board, if such an officer be elected, shall, if
present, preside at meetings of the board of directors and exercise such other
powers and perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned to him
by the board of directors or as may be prescribed by these bylaws.  If there is
no chairman of the board, then the chief executive officer of the corporation
shall have the powers and duties prescribed herein.


     V.7  CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
          -----------------------

     Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of
directors to the chairman of the board, if there be such an officer, the chief
executive officer of the corporation shall, subject to the control of the board
of directors, have general supervision, direction and control of the business
and the officers of the corporation.  He or she shall preside at all meetings of
the stockholders and, in the absence or nonexistence of a chairman of the board,
at all meetings of the board of directors.


     V.8  PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER
          -------------------------------------

     Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the board of
directors to the chief executive officer, if there be such an officer, the
president and chief operating officer of the corporation shall, subject to the
control of the board of directors, have general supervision over the operations
of the corporation.  He or she shall have the general powers and duties of
management usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall
have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
board of directors or these bylaws.


     V.9  VICE PRESIDENTS
          ---------------
 
     In the absence or disability of the president, and if there is no chairman
of the board, the vice presidents, if any, in order of their rank as fixed by
the board of directors or, if not ranked, a vice president designated by the
board of directors, shall perform all the duties of the president and when so
acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions
upon, the president.  The vice presidents shall have such other powers and
perform such other duties as from time to time may be prescribed for them
respectively by the board of directors, these bylaws, the president or the
chairman of the board.

                                      -13-
<PAGE>
 
     V.10  SECRETARY
           ---------

     The secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive
office of the corporation or such other place as the board of directors may
direct, a book of minutes of all meetings and actions of the board of directors,
committees of directors and stockholders.  The minutes shall show the time and
place of each meeting, whether regular or special (and, if special, how
authorized and the notice given), the names of those present at directors'
meetings or committee meetings, the number of shares present or represented at
stockholders' meetings and the proceedings thereof.

     The secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, at the principal executive
office of the corporation or at the office of the corporation's transfer agent
or registrar, as determined by resolution of the board of directors, a share
register or a duplicate share register, showing the names of all stockholders
and their addresses, the number and classes of shares held by each, the number
and date of certificates evidencing such shares and the number and date of
cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.

     The secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of
the stockholders and of the board of directors required to be given by law or by
these bylaws.  He or she shall keep the seal of the corporation, if one be
adopted, in safe custody and shall have such other powers and perform such other
duties as may be prescribed by the board of directors or by these bylaws.


     V.11  CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
           -----------------------

     The chief financial officer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept
and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of accounts of the
properties and business transactions of the corporation, including accounts of
its assets, liabilities, receipts, disbursements, gains, losses, capital,
retained earnings and shares.  The books of account shall at all reasonable
times be open to inspection by any director for a purpose reasonably related to
his position as a director.

     The chief financial officer shall deposit all money and other valuables in
the name and to the credit of the corporation with such depositaries as may be
designated by the board of directors. He or she shall disburse the funds of the
corporation as may be ordered by the board of directors, shall render to the
president and directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or
her transactions as chief financial officer and of the financial condition of
the corporation, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties
as may be prescribed by the board of directors or these bylaws.


     V.12  ASSISTANT SECRETARY
           -------------------

     The assistant secretary, if any, or, if there is more than one, the
assistant secretaries in the order determined by the board of directors (or if
there be no such determination, then in the order of their election) shall, in
the absence of the secretary or in the event of his or her inability or refusal
to act, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the secretary and shall
perform such other duties and have such other powers as the board of directors
may from time to time prescribe.

                                      -14-
<PAGE>
 
     V.13  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
           -----------------------

     In addition to the Corporate Officers of the corporation as provided in
Section 5.1 of these bylaws and such subordinate executive officers as may be
appointed in accordance with Section 5.3 of these bylaws, there may also be such
Administrative (or non-executive) officers of the corporation as may be
designated and appointed from time to time by the chief executive officer of the
corporation.  Administrative Officers shall perform such duties and have such
powers as from time to time may be determined by the chief executive officer or
the board of directors in order to assist the Corporate Officers in the
furtherance of their duties.  In the performance of such duties and the exercise
of such powers, however, such Administrative Officers shall have limited
authority to act on behalf of the corporation as the board of directors shall
establish, including but not limited to limitations on the dollar amount and on
the scope of agreements or commitments that may be made by such Administrative
Officers on behalf of the corporation, which limitations may not be exceeded by
such individuals or altered by the chief executive officer without further
approval by the board of directors.


     V.14  AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS
           --------------------------------

     In addition to the foregoing powers, authority and duties, all officers of
the corporation shall respectively have such authority and powers and perform
such duties in the management of the business of the corporation as may be
designated from time to time by the board of directors.


                                 ARTICLE VI



              INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES
              ------------------------------------------------
                              AND OTHER AGENTS
                              ----------------



     VI.1  INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
           -----------------------------------------

     The corporation shall, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by
the General Corporation Law of Delaware as the same now exists or may hereafter
be amended, indemnify any person against expenses (including attorneys' fees),
judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably
incurred in connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit,
or proceeding in which such person was or is a party or is threatened to be made
a party by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer
of the corporation.  For purposes of this Section 6.1, a "director" or "officer"
of the corporation shall mean any person (i) who is or was a director or officer
of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of the corporation
as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture,
trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was a director or officer of a
corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the corporation or of another
enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.

     The corporation shall be required to indemnify a director or officer in
connection with an 

                                      -15-
<PAGE>
 
action, suit, or proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such director or
officer only if the initiation of such action, suit, or proceeding (or part
thereof) by the director or officer was authorized by the board of Directors
of the corporation.

     The corporation shall pay the expenses (including attorney's fees) incurred
by a director or officer of the corporation entitled to indemnification
hereunder in defending any action, suit or proceeding referred to in this
Section 6.1 in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that payment
of expenses incurred by a director or officer of the corporation in advance of
the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding shall be made only upon
receipt of an undertaking by the director or officer to repay all amounts
advanced if it should ultimately be determined that the director or officer is
not entitled to be indemnified under this Section 6.1 or otherwise.

     The rights conferred on any person by this Article shall not be exclusive
of any other rights which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any
statute, provision of the corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, these
bylaws, agreement, vote of the stockholders or disinterested directors or
otherwise.

     Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article
shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any person in
respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or
modification.


     VI.2  INDEMNIFICATION OF OTHERS
           -------------------------

     The corporation shall have the power, to the maximum extent and in the
manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware as the same now
exists or may hereafter be amended, to indemnify any person (other than
directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments,
fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred in
connection with any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, or
proceeding, in which such person was or is a party or is threatened to be made a
party by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of
the corporation.  For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of
the corporation (other than a director or officer) shall mean any person (i) who
is or was an employee or agent of the corporation, (ii) who is or was serving at
the request of the corporation as an employee or agent of another corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an
employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of the
corporation or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor
corporation.


     VI.3  INSURANCE
           ---------

     The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person
who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or is
or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer,
employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or
other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred
by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such,
whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify him or her
against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of
Delaware.

                                      -16-
<PAGE>
 
                                 ARTICLE VII


                             RECORDS AND REPORTS
                             -------------------
 


     VII.1  MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION OF RECORDS
            -------------------------------------

     The corporation shall, either at its principal executive office or at such
place or places as designated by the board of directors, keep a record of its
stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of
shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these bylaws as amended to date,
accounting books and other records of its business and properties.

     Any stockholder of record, in person or by attorney or other agent, shall,
upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right
during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose the
corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and
records and to make copies or extracts therefrom.  A proper purpose shall mean a
purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder.  In every
instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to
inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or
such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on
behalf of the stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the
corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of
business.


     VII.2  INSPECTION BY DIRECTORS
            -----------------------

     Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock
ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose
reasonably related to his or her position as a director.


     VII.3  ANNUAL STATEMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS
            --------------------------------

     The board of directors shall present at each annual meeting, and at any
special meeting of the stockholders when called for by vote of the stockholders,
a full and clear statement of the business and condition of the corporation.


     VII.4  REPRESENTATION OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS
            ----------------------------------------------

     The chairman of the board, if any, the president, any vice president, the
chief financial officer, the secretary or any assistant secretary of this
corporation, or any other person authorized by the board of directors or the
president or a vice president, is authorized to vote, represent and exercise on
behalf of this corporation all rights incident to any and all shares of the
stock of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name of this
corporation.  The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such
person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by proxy or power of
attorney duly executed by such person having the authority.

                                      -17-
<PAGE>
 
     VII.5  CERTIFICATION AND INSPECTION OF BYLAWS
            --------------------------------------

     The original or a copy of these bylaws, as amended or otherwise altered to
date, certified by the secretary, shall be kept at the corporation's principal
executive office and shall be open to inspection by the stockholders of the
corporation, at all reasonable times during office hours.

                                      -18-
<PAGE>
 
                                ARTICLE VIII



                               GENERAL MATTERS
                               ---------------



     VIII.1  RECORD DATE FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN NOTICE AND VOTING
             -----------------------------------------------------

     For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of
any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the
stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change,
conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action,
the board of directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not
precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted and
which shall not be more than sixty (60) days before any such action.  In that
case, only stockholders of record at the close of business on the date so fixed
are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to
exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any
shares on the books of the corporation after the record date so fixed, except as
otherwise provided by law.

     If the board of directors does not so fix a record date, then the record
date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of
business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the applicable
resolution.


     VIII.2  CHECKS; DRAFTS; EVIDENCES OF INDEBTEDNESS
             -----------------------------------------

     From time to time, the board of directors shall determine by resolution
which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for
payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in
the name of or payable to the corporation, and only the persons so authorized
shall sign or endorse those instruments.


     VIII.3  CORPORATE CONTRACTS AND INSTRUMENTS:  HOW EXECUTED
             --------------------------------------------------
 
     The board of directors, except as otherwise provided in these bylaws, may
authorize and empower any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into
any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of the
corporation; such power and authority may be general or confined to specific
instances.  Unless so authorized or ratified by the board of directors or within
the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee shall have any
power or authority to bind the corporation by any contract or engagement or to
pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.


     VIII.4  STOCK CERTIFICATES; TRANSFER; PARTLY PAID SHARES
             ------------------------------------------------

     The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates,
provided that the board of directors of the corporation may provide by
resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of
its stock shall be uncertificated shares.  Any such resolution shall not apply
to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to
the corporation.  Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the board
of directors, every holder of stock 

                                      -19-
<PAGE>
 
represented by certificates and, upon request, every holder of uncertificated
shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of
the corporation by, the chairman or vice-chairman of the board of directors,
or the president or vice-president, and by the treasurer or an assistant
treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of such corporation
representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all
of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer,
transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has
been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent
or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the
corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer
agent or registrar at the date of issue.

     Certificates for shares shall be of such form and device as the board of
directors may designate and shall state the name of the record holder of the
shares represented thereby; its number; date of issuance; the number of shares
for which it is issued; a summary statement or reference to the powers,
designations, preferences or other special rights of such stock and the
qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights,
if any; a statement or summary of liens, if any; a conspicuous notice of
restrictions upon transfer or registration of transfer, if any; a statement as
to any applicable voting trust agreement; if the shares be assessable, or, if
assessments are collectible by personal action, a plain statement of such facts.

     Upon surrender to the secretary or transfer agent of the corporation of a
certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of
succession, assignment or authority to transfer, it shall be the duty of the
corporation to issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel
the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books.

     The corporation may issue the whole or any part of its shares as partly
paid and subject to call for the remainder of the consideration to be paid
therefor.  Upon the face or back of each stock certificate issued to represent
any such partly paid shares, or upon the books and records of the corporation in
the case of uncertificated partly paid shares, the total amount of the
consideration to be paid therefor and the amount paid thereon shall be stated.
Upon the declaration of any dividend on fully paid shares, the corporation shall
declare a dividend upon partly paid shares of the same class, but only upon the
basis of the percentage of the consideration actually paid thereon.


     VIII.5  SPECIAL DESIGNATION ON CERTIFICATES
             -----------------------------------

     If the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or
more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the
preferences and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of
each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or
summarized on the face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall
issue to represent such class or series of stock; provided, however, that,
except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of
Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the
face or back of the certificate that the corporation shall issue to represent
such class or series of stock a statement that the corporation will furnish
without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations,
the preferences and the relative, participating, optional or other special

                                      -20-
<PAGE>
 
rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications,
limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.


     VIII.6  LOST CERTIFICATES
             -----------------

     Except as provided in this Section 8.6, no new certificates for shares
shall be issued to replace a previously issued certificate unless the latter is
surrendered to the corporation and cancelled at the same time.  The board of
directors may, in case any share certificate or certificate for any other
security is lost, stolen or destroyed, authorize the issuance of replacement
certificates on such terms and conditions as the board may require; the board
may require indemnification of the corporation secured by a bond or other
adequate security sufficient to protect the corporation against any claim that
may be made against it, including any expense or liability, on account of the
alleged loss, theft or destruction of the certificate or the issuance of the
replacement certificate.


     VIII.7  TRANSFER AGENTS AND REGISTRARS
             ------------------------------

     The board of directors may appoint one or more transfer agents or transfer
clerks, and one or more registrars, each of which shall be an incorporated bank
or trust company -- either domestic or foreign, who shall be appointed at such
times and places as the requirements of the corporation may necessitate and the
board of directors may designate.


     VIII.8  CONSTRUCTION; DEFINITIONS
             -------------------------

     Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of
construction and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall
govern the construction of these bylaws.  Without limiting the generality of
this provision, as used in these bylaws, the singular number includes the
plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes
both an entity and a natural person.



                                 ARTICLE IX


                                 AMENDMENTS
                                 ----------
 

     The original or other bylaws of the corporation may be adopted, amended or
repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote; provided, however, that the
corporation may, in its certificate of incorporation, confer the power to adopt,
amend or repeal bylaws upon the directors.  The fact that such power has been so
conferred upon the directors shall not divest the stockholders of the power, nor
limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.

     Whenever an amendment or new bylaw is adopted, it shall be copied in the
book of bylaws with the original bylaws, in the appropriate place.  If any bylaw
is repealed, the fact of repeal with the date of the meeting at which the repeal
was enacted or the filing of the operative written consent(s) shall be stated in
said book.

                                      -21-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>REGISTRANTS 1990 DIRECTORS OPTIONS PLAN, AS AMENDED
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.3

                               AUTODESK, INC.

                         1990 DIRECTORS' OPTION PLAN


         1. Purposes of the Plan. The purposes of this Directors' Option Plan
            --------------------
are to attract and retain highly skilled individuals as Directors of the
Company, to provide additional incentive to the Outside Directors of the Company
to serve as Directors, and to encourage their continued service on the Board.

            All options granted hereunder shall be "non-statutory stock
options."

         2. Definitions. As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
            -----------

            (a) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
                 -----

            (b) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
                 ----

            (c) "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company, par
                 ------------
value $0.01 per share.

             (d) "Company" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
                  -------

             (e) "Director" means a member of the Board.
                  --------

             (f) "Employee" means any person, including officers and
                  --------
Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
The payment of a Director's fee or consulting fee by the Company shall not be
sufficient in and of itself to constitute "employment" by the Company unless the
Director and the Company agree that, as a result of payment of such fees in
connection with services rendered, such Director should not be considered an
Outside Director.

             (g) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                  ------------
amended.

             (h) "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of
                  -----------------
Common Stock determined as follows:

                 (i) If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock
exchange or national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq
National Market, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the
closing sale price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were
reported), as quoted on such system or exchange (or, if more than one, on the
exchange with the greatest volume of trading in the Company's Common Stock) on
the day of determination, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such other
source as the Board deems reliable;

As amended by the Board of Directors on December 12, 1997.
<PAGE>
 
                 (ii)   If the Common Stock is quoted on Nasdaq (but not on
the National Market) or regularly quoted by a recognized securities dealer,
but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of a Share of
Common Stock shall be the mean between the high and low asked prices for the
Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in The Wall Street
Journal or such other source as the Board deems reliable, or;

                 (iii)  In the absence of an established market for the Common
Stock, the Fair Market Value thereof shall be determined in good faith by the
Board.

             (i) "Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock granted
                  ------
pursuant to the Plan.

             (j) "Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to an Option.
                  --------------

             (k) "Optionee" means an Outside Director who receives an Option.
                  --------

             (l) "Outside Director" means a Director who is not an Employee.
                  ----------------

             (m) "Plan" means this 1990 Directors' Option Plan.
                  ----

             (n) "Purchaser" means an Outside Director who purchases
                  ---------
Restricted Stock.

             (o) "Restricted Stock" means Shares granted to and purchased by
                  ----------------
Outside Directors in accordance with Section 4(c) of this Plan.

             (p) "Restricted Stock Award" means the Company's grant of
                  ----------------------
Restricted Stock pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Plan.

             (q) "Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in
                  -----
accordance with Section 11 of the Plan.

         3.  Stock Subject to the Plan. Subject to the provisions of Section 11
             -------------------------
of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned and
sold under the Plan is 440,000 Shares (the "Pool") of Common Stock. The Shares
may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.

             If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been
exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall
become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has
terminated). If Shares are forfeited to the Company pursuant to a Restricted
Stock agreement, such Shares shall be returned to the Plan and shall become
available for reissuance under the Plan, unless the Plan shall have been
terminated. However, such Shares shall not return to the Plan if the persons
to whom they were originally issued receive the benefits of ownership of such
Shares (other than voting), as such concept is

As amended by the Board of Directors on December 12, 1997.
<PAGE>
 
interpreted from time to time by the Securities and Exchange Commission in
the context of Rule 16b-3.

         4. Administration of and Grants under the Plan.
            -------------------------------------------

            (a) Administration. Except as otherwise required herein, the Plan
                --------------
shall be administered by the Board. All grants of Options and Restricted Stock
to Outside Directors under this Plan shall be automatic and nondiscretionary
and shall be made strictly in accordance with the following provisions:

             (b) Option Grants.
                 -------------

                 (i)   No person shall have any discretion to select which
outside Directors shall be granted Options or to determine the number of
Shares to be covered by Options granted to Outside Directors.

                 (ii)  Each Outside Director who joins the Board on or after
June 30, 1995 shall be automatically granted an Option to purchase 20,000
Shares (the "Initial Option") upon the date of the first meeting of the Board
at which such person first serves as a Director (which shall be (i) in the
case of a director elected by the stockholders of the Company, the first
meeting of the Board of Directors after the meeting of stockholders at which
such director was elected or (ii) in the case of a director appointed by the
Board to fill a vacancy, the meeting of the Board at which such director is
appointed); provided, however, that no option shall become exercisable under
the Plan until stockholder approval of the Plan has been obtained in
accordance with Section 16 hereof.

                 (iii) Effective as of the annual stockholder meeting to be
held June 27, 1996 and on the date of each subsequent annual stockholder
meeting during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall
automatically receive an additional option to purchase 10,000 Shares (the
"Annual Option"), provided that (1) the Annual Option shall be granted only to
an outside Director who has served on the Board for at least six full months
prior to the date of grant and (2) the grant of an Annual option shall be
subject to the person's continued service as an outside Director.

                 (iv)  The terms of each Option granted hereunder shall be as
follows:

                       (1)     Each Option shall terminate, if not previously
exercised or otherwise terminated, on a date ten (10) years after the date of
grant.

                       (2)     Each Option shall be exercisable only while the
Outside Director remains a Director of the Company, except as set forth in
Section 8 hereof.

                       (3)     The exercise price per Share of each Option
shall be 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant of the
Option.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
                       (4)     Each Option shall become exercisable in
installments cumulatively as to 34%, 33% and 33%, respectively, of the
Optioned Stock on each of the three (3) succeeding years on the anniversary of
such Option's date of grant, for a total vesting period of approximately three
(3) years, provided that the Director continues to serve on the Board on such
dates.

                 (v)   In the event that any Option granted under the Plan
would cause the number of Shares subject to outstanding Options plus the
number of Shares previously purchased upon exercise of Options to exceed the
Pool, then each such automatic grant shall be for that number of Shares
determined by dividing the total number of Shares remaining available for
grant by the number of Outside Directors on the automatic grant date. No
further grants shall be made until such time, if any, as additional Shares
become available for grant under the Plan through action of the stockholders
to increase the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan or through
cancellation or expiration of Options previously granted hereunder.

        (c)      Restricted Stock Awards.
                 -----------------------

                 (i)   No person shall have any discretion to select which
Outside Directors shall receive Restricted Stock Awards or to determine the
number of Shares to be covered by Restricted Stock awarded to Outside
Directors; provided, however, that nothing in this Plan shall be construed to
prevent an Outside Director from declining to receive a Restricted Stock Award
under this Plan.

                 (ii)  Effective as of the annual stockholder meeting to be
held June 27, 1996 and on the date of each subsequent annual stockholder
meeting during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall
automatically receive a Restricted Stock Award for that number of Shares
determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) fifty percent (50%) of the cash
value of his or her annual retainer as a Director multiplied by (b) 1.2, by
(2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded to the nearest
whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock
Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient
Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock
Award.

                 (iii) Effective as of the annual stockholder meeting to be
held in 1997 and on the date of each subsequent annual meeting during the term
of this Plan, each Outside Director may elect to receive any or all of the
remaining cash balance of his or her annual retainer as a Director in the form
of a Restricted Stock Award by making an election (the "Election"). The
Election must be in writing and delivered to the Secretary of the Company at
least six (6) months before the next annual stockholder meeting. Any Election
made by an Outside Director pursuant to this subsection 4(c)(iii) shall be
irrevocable. Effective as of the annual stockholder meeting next following an
Election, the Outside Director shall receive a Restricted Stock Award for that
number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) the amount of
his or her annual retainer as a Director covered by the Election, multiplied
by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded to
the nearest whole Share, provided that on the

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Award such person is an Outside
Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the
Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Award.

                      (iv) The terms of a Restricted Stock Award granted
hereunder shall be as follows:

                           (1) the purchase price shall be $.01 per Share (the
par value of the Company's Common Stock); and

                           (2) Subject to Sections 9(d) and 11(c), Restricted
Stock shall vest on the date of the following year's annual stockholder
meeting, provided that the Purchaser is an Outside Director on such date.

                  (d) Powers of the Board. Subject to the provisions and
                      -------------------
restrictions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion:
(i) to determine, upon review of relevant information and in accordance with
Section 2(h) of the Plan, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock; (ii) to
interpret the Plan; (iii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations
relating to the Plan; (iv) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the
Company any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option or
Restricted Stock Award previously granted hereunder; and (v) to make all other
determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan.

                  (e) Effect of Board's Decision. All decisions, determinations
                      --------------------------
and interpretations of the Board shall be final.

         5.       Eligibility. Options and Restricted Stock Awards may be
                  -----------
granted only to Outside Directors. All Options shall be automatically granted
in accordance with the terms set forth in Section 4(b) and all Restricted
Stock Awards shall be automatically granted in accordance with the terms set
forth in Section 4(c)

                  The Plan shall not confer upon any Optionee or Purchaser any
right with respect to continuation of service as a Director or nomination to
serve as a Director, nor shall it interfere in any way with any rights which
the Director or the Company may have to terminate his or her directorship at
any time.

         6.       Term of Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon the
                  ------------
earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval by the
stockholders of the Company as described in Section 17 of the Plan. It shall
continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless sooner terminated under
Section 12 of the Plan.

         7.       Option Exercise Price and Consideration.
                  ---------------------------------------

                  (a) Exercise Price. The per Share exercise price for Optioned
                      --------------
Stock shall be 

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of grant of the Option.

            (b) Form of Consideration. The consideration to be paid for
                ---------------------
the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option may consist of (i) cash, (ii)
check, or (iii) other shares of the Company's Common Stock which, in the case of
Shares acquired upon exercise of an Option, either have been owned by the
Optionee for more than six (6) months on the date of surrender or were not
acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company, and have a Fair Market Value
on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as
to which said Option shall be exercised.

         8. Exercise of Option.
            ------------------

            (a) Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder. Any
                -----------------------------------------------
Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times as are set forth in
Section 4(b) hereof.

            An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

            An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice
of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of
the Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option and full payment for
the Shares with respect to which the option is exercised has been received by
the Company. Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment
allowable under Section 7(b) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by
the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares,
no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall
exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the
option. A share certificate for the number of Shares so acquired shall be issued
to the Optionee as soon as practicable after exercise of the option. No
adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date
is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in
Section 11 of the Plan.

            Except as otherwise provided in Section 3, exercise of an
Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which
thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under
the option, by the number of Shares as to which the option is exercised.

            (b) Rule 16b-3. Options granted to Outside Directors must
                ----------
comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the
Exchange Act or any successor thereto and shall contain such additional
conditions or restrictions as may be required thereunder to qualify for the
maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan
transactions.

            (c) Termination of Status as a Director. If an Outside
                -----------------------------------
Director ceases to serve as a Director, he may, but only within seven (7) months
after the date he ceases to be a Director of the Company, exercise his Option to
the extent that he was entitled to exercise it at the date of 

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
such termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option
be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent that the Director was not
entitled to exercise an Option at the date of such termination, or if he does
not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within the time
specified herein, the Option shall terminate.

            (d) Disability of Optionee. Notwithstanding the provisions of
                ----------------------
Section 8(c) above, in the event an Optionee is unable to continue his service
as a Director as a result of his total and permanent disability (as defined in
Section 22(e)(3) of the Code), he may, but only within twelve (12) months from
the date of termination, exercise his Option to the extent he was entitled to
exercise it at the date of such termination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in
no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired. To the extent
that he was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of termination, or
if he does not exercise such Option (which he was entitled to exercise) within
the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.

            (e) Death of Optionee. In the event of the death of an Optionee
                -----------------
during the term of an Option, the Option shall become fully exercisable,
including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable and may
be exercised, at any time within twelve (12) months following the date of
death, by the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to
exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired.

         9. Restricted Stock.
            ----------------

            (a) Procedure for Purchase. Following a Restricted Stock Award
                ----------------------
in accordance with Section 4(c), the Board shall notify the offeree in writing
of the terms, conditions and restrictions relating to the offer, and the offeree
shall have ninety (90) days following receipt of such notice within which to
accept such offer. The offer shall be accepted by execution of a Restricted
Stock purchase agreement in such form as the Board shall approve.

            (b) Rights as a Stockholder. Until the issuance (as evidenced
                -----------------------
by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing Restricted
Stock, no right to vote or to receive dividends or any other rights as a
stockholder shall exist with respect to purchased Shares. A share certificate
for the number of Shares of Restricted Stock purchased shall be issued to the
Purchaser as soon as practicable after purchase of the Restricted Stock. No
adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date
is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in
Section 11 of the Plan.

            (c) Termination of Continuous Status as a Director. In the
                ----------------------------------------------
event a Purchaser's Continuous Status as a Director terminates prior to vesting
(other than by reason of the Purchaser's death), Restricted Stock shall be
forfeited by the Purchaser without any consideration therefor.

            (d) Death. In the event a Purchaser's Continuous Status as a
                -----
Director 

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
terminates by reason of the Purchaser's death, the Purchaser's Restricted
Stock shall become fully vested as of the date of death.

            (e) Shares Available Under the Plan. Except as otherwise
                -------------------------------
provided in Section 3 hereof, a purchase of Restricted Stock as provided
hereunder shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares that thereafter
shall be available under the Plan, by the number of Shares of Restricted Stock
purchased.

            (f) Rule 16b-3. Restricted Stock Awards to Outside Directors
                ----------
must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act and
shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be required
thereunder to qualify Plan transactions, and other transactions by Outside
Directors that could be matched with Plan transactions, for the maximum
exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.

        10. Non-Transferability of Options and Restricted Stock Awards. Options
            ----------------------------------------------------------
and Restricted Stock Awards may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated,
transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of
descent or distribution. Options may be exercised, during the lifetime of the
Optionee, only by the Optionee.

        11. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization,  Dissolution,  Merger,  
            ------------------------------------------------------------------
Asset Sale or Change of Control.
- -------------------------------

            (a) Changes in Capitalization. Subject to any required action
                -------------------------
by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each
outstanding Option and Restricted Stock Award, the number of Shares which have
been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Options or
Restricted Stock Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the
Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option or repurchase or forfeiture of
Restricted Stock, as well as the price per Share covered by each such
outstanding Option, as applicable, and the number of Shares issuable pursuant to
the automatic grant provisions of Section 4 hereof shall be proportionately
adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting
from a stock split, spin off, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination
or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in
the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the
Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the
Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of
consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company
of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock
of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made
with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Option or
Restricted Stock Award.

            (b) Dissolution or Liquidation. In the event of a proposed
                --------------------------
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, Options and Restricted Stock shall
become fully vested and, in the case of Options, fully exercisable, including
as to Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable. To the extent
an Option or Restricted Stock Award remains unexercised at the time of the
dissolution or liquidation, the Option or Restricted Stock Award shall
terminate.

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
             (c) Merger or Asset Sale. In the event of a merger of the Company
                 --------------------
with or into another corporation or the sale of substantially all of the
assets of the Company, Restricted Stock shall fully vest and outstanding
Options may be assumed or equivalent options may be substituted by the
successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary thereof (the "Successor
Corporation"). If an Option is assumed or substituted for, the Option or
equivalent option shall continue to be exercisable as provided in Section 4
hereof for so long as the Optionee serves as a Director or a director of the
Successor Corporation. Following such assumption or substitution, if the
Optionee's status as a Director or director of the Successor Corporation, as
applicable, is terminated other than upon a voluntary resignation by the
Optionee, the Option or option shall become fully exercisable, including as to
Shares for which it would not otherwise be exercisable. Thereafter, the Option
or option shall remain exercisable in accordance with Sections 8(c) through
(e) above.

         If the Successor Corporation does not assume an outstanding Option or
substitute for it an equivalent option, the Option shall become fully vested and
exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would not otherwise be
exercisable. In such event the Board shall notify the Optionee that the Option
shall be fully exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
such notice, and upon the expiration of such period the Option shall terminate.

         For the purposes of this Section 11(c), an Option shall be considered
assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets, the Option confers the right
to purchase or receive, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option
immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets, the consideration (whether
stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or sale of
assets by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of
the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type
of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares).

         12. Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
             -------------------------------------

             (a) Amendment and Termination. The Board may at any time
                 -------------------------
amend, alter, suspend, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration,
suspension, or discontinuation shall be made which would impair the rights of
any Optionee or Purchaser under any grant theretofore made, without his or her
consent. In addition, to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule
16b-3 under the Exchange Act (or any other applicable law or regulation), the
Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner
and to such a degree as required. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions
set forth in Sections 4(b) and 4(c) of this Plan (and any additional Sections of
this Plan as required by Rule 16b-3) shall not be amended more than once every
six months, other than to comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code, the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act, as amended, or the rules thereunder.

             (b) Effect of Amendment or Termination. Any such amendment or
                 ----------------------------------
termination of the Plan shall not affect Options or Restricted Stock already
granted and such Options and Restricted Stock shall remain in full force and
effect as if this Plan had not been 

                                      -9-
<PAGE>
 
amended or terminated.

         13. Time of Granting Options or Restricted Stock Awards. The date of
             ---------------------------------------------------
grant of an Option or Restricted Stock Award shall, for all purposes, be the
date determined in accordance with Section 4 hereof. Notice of the determination
shall be given to each Outside Director to whom an Option or Restricted Stock
Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.

         14. Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares. Shares shall not be issued
             ----------------------------------
pursuant to the exercise of an Option or Restricted Stock Award unless the
exercise of such Option or Restricted Stock Award and the issuance and delivery
of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of
law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the
Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities
laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then
be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the
Company with respect to such compliance.

             As a condition to the exercise of an Option or Restricted
Stock Award, the Company may require the person exercising such Option or
Restricted Stock Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise
that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present
intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of counsel for
the Company, such a representation is required by any of the aforementioned
relevant provisions of law.

             Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any
regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's
counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder,
shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or
sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been
obtained.

         15. Reservation of Shares. The Company, during the term of this Plan,
             ---------------------
will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

         16. Agreements. Options and Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced
             ----------
by written option agreements in such form as the Board shall approve.

         17. Stockholder Approval. Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to
             --------------------
approval by the stockholders of the Company at or prior to the first annual
meeting of stockholders held subsequent to the adoption of the Plan. Such
stockholder approval shall be obtained in the degree and manner required under
applicable state and federal law.

                                      -10-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>1996 STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.4


                                AUTODESK, INC.

                                1996 STOCK PLAN
                         (AS AMENDED JANUARY 27, 1998)


    1.  Purposes of the Plan.  The purposes of this Stock Plan are:
        --------------------                                       

    .   to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of
        substantial responsibility,

    .   to provide additional incentive to Employees and Consultants, and

    .   to promote the success of the Company's business.

    Options granted under the Plan may be Incentive Stock Options or
Nonstatutory Stock Options, as determined by the Administrator at the time of
grant.  Stock Purchase Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards may also be
granted under the Plan.

    2.  Definitions.  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
        -----------                                                         

        (a) "Administrator" means the Board or any of its Committees as shall be
             -------------                                                      
administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

        (b) "Applicable Laws" means the legal requirements relating to the
             ---------------                                              
administration of stock option plans under U. S. state corporate laws, U.S.
federal and state securities laws, the Code and the applicable laws of any
foreign country or jurisdiction where Options or Stock Purchase Rights will be
or are being granted under the Plan.

        (c) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
             -----                                              

        (d) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
             ----                                                      

        (e) "Committee"  means a Committee appointed by the Board in accordance
             ---------                                                         
with Section 4 of the Plan.

        (f) "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.
             ------------                                        

        (g) "Company" means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
             -------                                               

        (h) "Consultant" means any person, including an advisor, engaged by the
             ----------                                                        
Company or a Parent or Subsidiary to render services and who is compensated for
such services.  The term "Consultant" shall not include Directors who are paid
only a director's fee by the Company or who are not compensated by the Company
for their services as Directors.

                                                                          Page 1
<PAGE>
 
        (i) "Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant" means that the
             ----------------------------------------------                
employment or consulting relationship with the Company, its Parent, or any
Subsidiary, is not interrupted or terminated.  Continuous Status as an Employee
or Consultant shall not be considered interrupted in the case of (i) any leave
of absence approved by the Company or (ii) transfers between locations of the
Company or between the Company, its Parent, any Subsidiary, or any successor.  A
leave of absence approved by the Company shall include sick leave, military
leave, or any other personal leave approved by an authorized representative of
the Company.  For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no such leave may exceed
ninety days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by
statute or contract.  If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence
approved by the Company is not so guaranteed, on the 181st day of such leave any
Incentive Stock Option held by the Optionee shall cease to be treated as an
Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory
Stock Option.

        (j) "Director" means a member of the Board.
             --------                              

        (k) "Disability" means total and permanent disability as defined in
             ----------                                                    
Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.

        (l) "Employee" means any person, including Officers and Directors,
             --------                                                     
employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.  Neither
service as a Director nor payment of a director's fee by the Company shall be
sufficient to constitute "employment" by the Company.

        (m) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
             ------------                                               
amended.

        (n) "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock
             -----------------                                                  
determined as follows:

             (i)  If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock
exchange or national market system, including without limitation The Nasdaq
National Market or The Nasdaq SmallCap Market of The Nasdaq Stock Market, its
Fair Market Value shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the
closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such exchange or system for
the date of such determination, as reported in The Wall Street Journal or such
other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

            (ii)  If the Common Stock is regularly quoted by a recognized
securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, the Fair Market Value of
a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid and low asked
prices for the Common Stock on the date of determination, as reported in The
Wall Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

            (iii) In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock,
the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator.

                                                                          Page 2
<PAGE>
 
        (o) "Incentive Stock Option" means an Option intended to qualify as an
             ----------------------                                           
incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the
regulations promulgated thereunder.

        (p) "Insiders" means individuals subject to Section 16 of the Exchange
             --------                                                         
Act.

        (q) "Long-Term Performance Award" means an award of cash or stock
             ---------------------------                                 
pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan.

        (r) "Nonstatutory Stock Option" means an Option not intended to qualify
             -------------------------                                         
as an Incentive Stock Option.

        (s) "Notice of Grant" means a written or electronic notice evidencing
             ---------------                                                 
certain terms and conditions of an individual Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Award grant.  The Notice of Grant is part of the Option
Agreement.

        (t) "Officer" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the
             -------                                                            
meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.

        (u) "Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
             ------                                                    

        (v) "Option Agreement" means a written or electronic agreement between
             ----------------                                                 
the Company and an Optionee evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual
Option grant.  The Option Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of
the Plan.

        (w) "Optioned Stock" means the Common Stock subject to an Option, Stock
             --------------                                                    
Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award.

        (x) "Optionee" means an Employee or Consultant who holds an outstanding
             --------                                                          
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award.

        (y) "Parent" means a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter
             ------                                                        
existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.

        (z) "Plan" means this 1996 Stock Plan, as amended.
             ----                                         

        (aa) "Restricted Stock" means shares of Common Stock acquired pursuant
              ----------------                                                
to a grant of Stock Purchase Rights under Section 11 below.

        (bb) "Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement" means a written agreement
              -----------------------------------                           
between the Company and the Optionee evidencing the terms and restrictions
applying to stock purchased under a Stock Purchase Right.  The Restricted Stock
Purchase Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the
Notice of Grant.

                                                                          Page 3
<PAGE>
 
        (cc) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor
              ----------                                                       
to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to
the Plan.

        (dd) "Section 16(b)" means Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act
              -------------                                                    
of 1934, as amended.

        (ee) "Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in
              -----                                                   
accordance with Section 14 of the Plan.

        (ff) "Stock Purchase Right" means the right to purchase Common Stock
              --------------------                                          
pursuant to Section 11 of the Plan, as evidenced by a Notice of Grant.

        (gg) "Subsidiary" means a "subsidiary corporation", whether now or
              ----------                                                  
hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.

    3.  Stock Subject to the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of
        -------------------------                                             
the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned and sold
under the Plan is 3,500,000 shares, plus (a) an annual increase to be made on
the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year equal to the lesser of (i)
500,000 Shares, (ii) 3.5% of the Issued Shares (as defined below) on such date
or (iii) a lesser amount determined by the Board, (b) any Shares which have been
reserved but unissued under the Company's 1987 Stock Option Plan ("1987 Plan")
as of the date of stockholder approval of the original adoption of this Plan not
to exceed 3,000,000 Shares, and (c) any Shares returned to the 1987 Plan as a
result of termination of options under the 1987 Plan not to exceed 9,000,000
Shares.  "Issued Shares" shall mean the number of shares of Common Stock of the
Company outstanding on such date plus any shares reacquired by the Company
during the fiscal year that ends on such date.

        If an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award
expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, the
unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future
grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated); provided,
                                                               -------- 
however, that Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan, whether upon
exercise of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award,
shall not be returned to the Plan and shall not become available for future
distribution under the Plan, except that if Shares of Restricted Stock are
repurchased by the Company at their original purchase price, and the original
purchaser of such Shares did not receive any benefits of ownership of such
Shares, such Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan.  For
purposes of the preceding sentence, voting rights shall not be considered a
benefit of Share ownership.

                                                                          Page 4
<PAGE>
 
    4.  Administration of the Plan.
        -------------------------- 

        (a)  Procedure.
             --------- 

             (i)   Multiple Administrative Bodies. If permitted by Rule 16b-3,
                   ------------------------------
the Plan may be administered by different bodies with respect to Directors,
Officers who are not Directors, and Employees who are neither Directors nor
Officers.

             (ii)  Administration With Respect to Directors and Officers 
                   -----------------------------------------------------
Subject to Section 16(b).  With respect to Option, Stock Purchase Right or 
- ------------------------                                                
Long-Term Performance Award grants made to Employees who are also Officers or
Directors subject to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be
administered by (A) the Board, if the Board may administer the Plan in a manner
complying with the rules under Rule 16b-3 relating to the disinterested
administration of employee benefit plans under which Section 16(b) exempt
discretionary grants and awards of equity securities are to be made, or (B) a
committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan, which committee shall
be constituted to comply with the rules under Rule 16b-3 relating to the
disinterested administration of employee benefit plans under which Section 16(b)
exempt discretionary grants and awards of equity securities are to be made. Once
appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve in its designated capacity
until otherwise directed by the Board. From time to time the Board may increase
the size of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with
or without cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused),
and remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the
Plan, all to the extent permitted by the rules under Rule 16b-3 relating to the
disinterested administration of employee benefit plans under which Section 16(b)
exempt discretionary grants and awards of equity securities are to be made.

             (iii)  Administration With Respect to Other Persons.  With 
                    -------------------------------------------- 
respect to Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award grants
made to Employees or Consultants who are neither Directors nor Officers of the
Company, the Plan shall be administered by (A) the Board or (B) a committee
designated by the Board, which committee shall be constituted to satisfy
Applicable Laws. Once appointed, such Committee shall serve in its designated
capacity until otherwise directed by the Board. The Board may increase the size
of the Committee and appoint additional members, remove members (with or without
cause) and substitute new members, fill vacancies (however caused), and remove
all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan, all to
the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

        (b) Powers of the Administrator.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
            ---------------------------                                         
and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties delegated by the
Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its
discretion:

            (i) to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in
accordance with Section 2(n) of the Plan;

                                                                          Page 5
<PAGE>
 
          (ii)   to select the Consultants and Employees to whom Options, Stock
Purchase Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards may be granted hereunder;

          (iii)  to determine whether and to what extent Options, Stock Purchase
Rights and Long-Term Performance Awards or any combination thereof, are granted
hereunder;

          (iv)   to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered
by each Option, Stock Purchase Right and Long-Term Performance Awards granted
hereunder;

          (v)    to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;

          (vi)   to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with 
the terms of the Plan, of any award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions
include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when
Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Long-Term Performance Awards may be exercised
(which may be based on performance criteria), any vesting acceleration or waiver
of forfeiture restrictions, and any restriction or limitation regarding any
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Awards or the shares of
Common Stock relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the
Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine;

          (vii)  to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and awards
granted pursuant to the Plan;

          (viii) to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating
to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established
for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax
laws;

          (ix)   to modify or amend each Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-
Term Performance Awards (subject to Section 16(c) of the Plan), including the
discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of
Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan;

          (x)    to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any
instrument required to effect the grant of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Awards previously granted by the Administrator;

          (xi)   to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Options,
Stock Purchase Rights, Long-Term Performance Awards and any Restricted Stock;
and

          (xii)  to make all other determinations deemed necessary or
advisable for administering the Plan.

      (c) Effect of Administrator's Decision.  The Administrator's decisions,
          ----------------------------------                                 
determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Optionees
and any other holders of Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Long-Term Performance
Awards.

                                                                          Page 6
<PAGE>
 
    5.  Eligibility.  Nonstatutory Stock Options, Stock Purchase Rights and
        -----------                                                        
Long-Term Performance Awards may be granted to Employees and Consultants.
Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to Employees.  If otherwise
eligible, an Employee or Consultant who has been granted an Option, Stock
Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Awards may be granted additional
Options, Stock Purchase Rights or Long-Term Performance Awards.

    6.  Limitations.
        ----------- 

        (a) Each Option shall be designated in the written option agreement as
either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.  However,
notwithstanding such designation, to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market
Value of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are
exercisable for the first time by the Optionee during any calendar year (under
all plans of the Company and any Parent or Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, such
Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.

        (b) Neither the Plan nor any Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award shall confer upon an Optionee any right with respect to
continuing the Optionee's employment or consulting relationship with the
Company, nor shall they interfere in any way with the Optionee's right or the
Company's right to terminate such employment or consulting relationship at any
time, with or without cause.

        (c) The following limitations shall apply to grants of Options to
Employees:

            (i)   No Employee shall be granted, in any fiscal year of the
Company, Options to purchase more than 1,000,000 Shares.

            (ii)  In connection with his or her initial employment, an Employee
may be granted Options to purchase up to an additional 1,000,000 Shares which
shall not count against the limit set forth in subsection (i) above.

            (iii) The foregoing limitations shall be adjusted proportionately in
connection with any change in the Company's capitalization as described in
Section 14.

            (iv)  If an Option is cancelled in the same fiscal year of the
Company in which it was granted (other than in connection with a transaction
described in Section 14), the cancelled Option will be counted against the
limits set forth in subsections (i) and (ii) above.

    7.  Term of Plan.  Subject to Section 20 of the Plan, the Plan shall become
        ------------                                                           
effective upon the earlier to occur of its adoption by the Board or its approval
by the stockholders of the Company as described in Section 20 of the Plan.  It
shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless terminated earlier
under Section 16 of the Plan.

                                                                          Page 7
<PAGE>
 
    8.  Term of Option.  The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice
        --------------                                                        
of Grant; provided, however, that in the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the
term shall be ten (10) years from the date of grant or such shorter term as may
be provided in the Notice of Grant.

    9.  Option Exercise Price and Consideration.
        --------------------------------------- 

        (a) Exercise Price.  The per share exercise price for the Shares to be
            --------------                                                    
issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be no less than 100% of the Fair
Market Value per Share on the date of grant.

        (b) Waiting Period and Exercise Dates.  At the time an Option is
            ---------------------------------                           
granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be
exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the
Option may be exercised.  In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an
Option may not be exercised until either the completion of a service period or
the achievement of performance criteria with respect to the Company or the
Optionee.

        (c) Form of Consideration.  The Administrator shall determine the
            ---------------------                                        
acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method
of payment.  In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Administrator shall
determine the acceptable form of consideration at the time of grant.  Such
consideration may consist entirely of:

            (i)   cash;

            (ii)  check;

            (iii) promissory note;

            (iv)  other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon
exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more than six months
on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of
surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said
Option shall be exercised;

            (v)   delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable,
shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to the Company of
the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price;

            (vi)  a reduction in the amount of any Company liability to the
Optionee, including any liability attributable to the Optionee's participation
in any Company-sponsored deferred compensation program or arrangement;

            (vii) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or

                                                                          Page 8
<PAGE>
 
         (viii)  such other consideration and method of payment for the
issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

    10.  Exercise of Option.
         ------------------ 

         (a) Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder. Any Option granted
             -----------------------------------------------                    
hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such
times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth
in the Option Agreement and the Notice of Grant.

             An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

             An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i)
written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option
Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full
payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised.  Full
payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the
Administrator and permitted by the Option Agreement and the Plan.  Shares issued
upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Optionee or, if
requested by the Optionee, in the name of the Optionee and his or her spouse.
Until the stock certificate evidencing such Shares is issued (as evidenced by
the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized
transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any
other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock,
notwithstanding the exercise of the Option.  The Company shall issue (or cause
to be issued) such stock certificate promptly after the Option is exercised.  No
adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date
is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in
Section 14 of the Plan.

             Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of
Shares thereafter available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under
the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.

        (b)  Termination of Employment or Consulting Relationship.  Upon
             ----------------------------------------------------       
termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant,
other than upon the Optionee's death or Disability, the Optionee may exercise
his or her Option within such period of time as is specified in the Notice of
Grant to the extent that he or she is entitled to exercise it on the date of
termination (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such
Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant).  In the absence of a specified time
in the Notice of Grant, the Option shall remain exercisable for three (3) months
following the Optionee's termination.  If, on the date of termination, the
Optionee is not entitled to exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares
covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan.
If, after termination, the Optionee does not exercise his or her Option within
the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the
Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

       Notwithstanding the above, in the event of an Optionee's change in
status from Consultant to Employee or Employee to Consultant, the Optionee's
Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant shall not automatically terminate
solely as a result of such change in status.

                                                                          Page 9
<PAGE>
 
In such event, an Incentive Stock Option held by the Optionee shall cease to be
treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall be treated for tax purposes as a
Nonstatutory Stock Option three months and one day following such change of
status.

        (c) Disability of Optionee.  Upon termination of an Optionee's
            ----------------------                                    
Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant as a result of the Optionee's
Disability, the Optionee may exercise his or her Option at any time within
twelve (12) months (or such other period of time as is determined by the
Administrator) from the date of termination, but only to the extent that the
Optionee is entitled to exercise it on the date of termination (and in no event
later than the expiration of the term of the Option as set forth in the Notice
of Grant).  If, on the date of termination, the Optionee is not entitled to
exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unexercisable
portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan.  If, after termination, the
Optionee does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified herein,
the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert
to the Plan.

        (d) Death of Optionee.  In the event of the death of an Optionee, the
            -----------------                                                
Option shall become fully exercisable, including as to Shares for which it would
not otherwise be exercisable and may be exercised at any time within twelve (12)
months (or such other period of time as is determined by the Administrator)
following the date of death (but in no event later than the expiration of the
term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant), by the Optionee's
estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest
or inheritance.  If, after death, the Optionee's estate or a person who acquired
the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance does not exercise the
Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate, and the
Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

        (e) Rule 16b-3.  Options granted to individuals subject to Section 16 of
            ----------                                                          
the Exchange Act (Insiders) must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule
16b-3 and shall contain such additional conditions or restrictions as may be
required thereunder to qualify for the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the
Exchange Act with respect to Plan transactions.

   11.  Stock Purchase Rights.
        --------------------- 

        (a) Rights to Purchase.  Stock Purchase Rights may be issued either
            ------------------                                             
alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other awards granted under the Plan
and/or cash awards made outside of the Plan.  After the Administrator determines
that it will offer Stock Purchase Rights under the Plan, it shall advise the
offeree in writing or electronically, by means of a Notice of Grant, of the
terms, conditions and restrictions related to the offer, including the number of
Shares that the offeree shall be entitled to purchase, the price to be paid
provided, however, that the purchase price shall not be less than the par value
of the Company's Common Stock, and the time within which the offeree must accept
such offer, which shall in no event exceed ninety (90) days from the later of
(i) the date upon which the Administrator made the determination to grant the
Stock Purchase Right, or (ii) the date the Notice of Grant of Stock Purchase
Rights is delivered to the Executive.  The offer shall be accepted by execution
of a Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement in the form determined by the

                                                                         Page 10
<PAGE>
 
Administrator.  The number of Shares subject to grants of Stock Purchase Rights
shall not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total number of Shares authorized
under the Plan.

        (b) Repurchase Option.   The Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement shall
            -----------------                                                 
grant the Company a repurchase option exercisable upon the voluntary or
involuntary termination of the purchaser's employment with the Company for any
reason (including Disability); provided, however, that such repurchase option
shall terminate in the event of the death of the Purchaser.  In all other cases,
the repurchase option shall lapse at a rate determined by the Administrator;
provided, however that, except as otherwise provided in this subsection, no
portion of the repurchase option shall lapse before the end of three years from
the date of purchase of the Restricted Stock.  The purchase price for Shares
repurchased pursuant to the Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement shall be the
original price paid by the purchaser and may be paid by cancellation of any
indebtedness of the purchaser to the Company.

        (c) Rule 16b-3.  Stock Purchase Rights granted to Insiders, and Shares
            ----------                                                        
purchased by Insiders in connection with Stock Purchase Rights, shall be subject
to any restrictions applicable thereto in compliance with Rule 16b-3.  An
Insider may only purchase Shares pursuant to the grant of a Stock Purchase
Right, and may only sell Shares purchased pursuant to the grant of a Stock
Purchase Right, during such time or times as are permitted by Rule 16b-3.

        (d) Other Provisions.  The Restricted Stock Purchase Agreement shall
            ----------------                                                
contain such other terms, provisions and conditions not inconsistent with the
Plan as may be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.  In
addition, the provisions of Restricted Stock Purchase Agreements need not be the
same with respect to each purchaser.

        (e) Rights as a Stockholder.  Once the Stock Purchase Right is
            -----------------------                                   
exercised, the purchaser shall have the rights equivalent to those of a
stockholder, and shall be a stockholder when his or her purchase is entered upon
the records of the duly authorized transfer agent of the Company.  No adjustment
will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to
the date the Stock Purchase Right is exercised, except as provided in Section 14
of the Plan.

        (f) Issuance of Shares.  As soon as possible after full payment of the
            ------------------                                                
purchase price, the Shares purchased shall be duly issued; provided, however,
that the Administrator may require that the purchaser make adequate provision
for any Federal and State withholding obligations of the Company as a condition
to such purchase.

        (g) Shares Available Under the Plan.  Exercise of a Stock Purchase Right
            -------------------------------                                     
in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares that thereafter
shall be available for reissuance under the Plan.

        (h) Stock Withholding to Satisfy Tax Obligations.  The Administrator
            --------------------------------------------                    
may, in its discretion, permit a purchaser to satisfy any withholding tax
obligation that arises in connection with the vesting of Shares by electing to
have the Company withhold from such vested Shares that number of Shares having a
Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld.  Elections

                                                                         Page 11
<PAGE>
 
by purchasers to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in writing
in a form acceptable to the Administrator and shall be subject to such
restrictions and limitations as the Administrator may specify.

   12.  Long-Term Performance Awards.
        ---------------------------- 

        (a) Awards.  Long-Term Performance Awards are cash or stock bonus awards
            ------                                                              
that may be granted either independently or along with, in addition to or in
tandem with other awards granted under the Plan and/or awards made outside of
the Plan.  Long-Term Performance Awards shall not require payment by the
recipient of any consideration for the Long-Term Performance Award or for the
Shares covered by such award.  The Administrator shall determine the nature,
length and starting date of any performance period (the "Performance Period")
for each Long-Term Performance Award and shall determine the performance and/or
employment factors to be used in the determination of the value of Long-Term
Performance Awards and the extent to which such Long-Term Performance Awards
have been earned.  Shares issued pursuant to a Long-Term Performance Award may
be made subject to various conditions, including vesting or forfeiture
provisions.  Long-Term Performance Awards may vary from participant to
participant and between groups of participants and shall be based upon the
achievement of Company, Subsidiary and/or individual performance factors or upon
such other criteria as the Administrator may deem appropriate.  Performance
Periods may overlap and participants may participate simultaneously with respect
to Long-Term Performance Awards that are subject to different Performance
Periods and different performance factors and criteria.  Long-Term Performance
Awards shall be confirmed by, and be subject to the terms of, a written Long-
Term Performance Award agreement.

        (b) Value of Awards.  At the beginning of each Performance Period, the
            ---------------                                                   
Administrator may determine for each Long-Term Performance Award subject to such
Performance Period the range of dollar values and/or numbers of Shares to be
issued to the participant at the end of the Performance Period if and to the
extent that the relevant measures of performance for such Long-Term Performance
Award are met.  Such dollar values or numbers of Shares may be fixed or may vary
in accordance with such performance or other criteria as may be determined by
the Administrator.

        (c) Adjustment of Awards.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 16
            --------------------                                               
hereof, the Administrator may, after the grant of Long-Term Performance Awards,
adjust the performance factors applicable to such Long-Term Performance Awards
to take into account changes in the law or in accounting or tax rules and to
make such adjustments as the Administrator deems necessary or appropriate to
reflect the inclusion or exclusion of the impact of extraordinary or unusual
items, events or circumstances in order to avoid windfalls or hardships.

        (d) Termination.  Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Long-Term
            -----------                                                        
Performance Award agreement, if a participant terminates his or her employment
or his or her consultancy during a Performance Period because of death or
Disability, the Administrator may in its discretion provide for an earlier
payment in settlement of such award, which payment may be in such amount and
under such terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.

                                                                         Page 12
<PAGE>
 
        Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Long-Term Performance Award
agreement, if a participant terminates employment or his or her consultancy
during a Performance Period for any reason other than death or Disability, then
such a participant shall not be entitled to any payment with respect to the
Long-Term Performance Award subject to such Performance Period, unless the
Administrator shall otherwise determine in its discretion.

        (e) Form of Payment.  The earned portion of a Long-Term Performance
            ---------------                                                
Award may be paid currently or on a deferred basis (with such interest or
earnings equivalent as may be determined by the Administrator).  Payment shall
be made in the form of cash or whole Shares (including Restricted Stock), or a
combination thereof, either in a lump sum payment or in installments, all as the
Administrator shall determine.

        (f) Reservation of Shares.  In the event that the Administrator grants a
            ---------------------                                               
Long-Term Performance Award that is payable in cash or Common Stock, the
Administrator may (but need not) reserve an appropriate number of Shares under
the Plan at the time of grant of the Long-Term Performance Award.  If and to the
extent that the full amount reserved is not actually paid in Common Stock, the
Shares representing the portion of the reserve for that Long-Term Performance
Award that is not actually issued in satisfaction of such Long-Term Performance
Award shall again become available for award under the Plan.  If Shares are not
reserved by the Administrator at the time of grant, then (i) no Shares shall be
deducted from the number of Shares available for grant under the Plan at that
time and (ii) at the time of payment of the Long-Term Performance Award, only
the number of Shares actually issued to the participant shall be so deducted.
If there are not a sufficient number of Shares available under the Plan for
issuance to a participant at the time of payment of a Long-Term Performance
Award, any shortfall shall be paid by the Company in cash.

        (g) Rule 16b-3.  Grants of Long-Term Performance Awards to Directors and
            ----------                                                          
Officers must comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3 and such Long-
Term Performance Awards shall contain such additional conditions or
restrictions, if any, as may be required by Rule 16b-3 to be in the written
agreement relating to such Long-Term Performance Awards in order to qualify for
the maximum exemption from Section 16 of the Exchange Act with respect to Plan
transactions.

    13.  Non-Transferability of Options, Stock Purchase Rights and Long-Term
         -------------------------------------------------------------------
Performance Awards.  An Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance
- ------------------                                                           
Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed
of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution
and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee.

    14. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or Asset
        ------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Sale.
        ---- 

        (a) Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required action by the
            -------------------------                                        
stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding
Option, Long-Term Performance Award and Stock Purchase Right, and the number of
Shares which have been authorized for issuance

                                                                         Page 13
<PAGE>
 
under the Plan but as to which no Options, Long-Term Performance Awards or Stock
Purchase Rights have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan
upon cancellation or expiration of an Option, Long-Term Performance Award or
Stock Purchase Right, as well as the price per Share  covered by each such
outstanding Option, Long-Term Performance Award or Stock Purchase Right, shall
be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued
Shares  resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend,
combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or
decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of
consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any
convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected
without receipt of consideration."  Such adjustment shall be made by the Board,
whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of Shares of
stock of any class, or securities convertible into Shares of stock of any class,
shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to,
the number or price of Shares subject to an Option, Long-Term Performance Award
or Stock Purchase Right.

        (b) Dissolution or Liquidation.  In the event of the proposed
            --------------------------                               
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each
Optionee as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed
transaction.  The Administrator in its discretion may provide for an Optionee to
have the right to exercise his or her Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the
Optioned Stock covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Option would
not otherwise be exercisable.  In addition, the Administrator may provide that
any Company repurchase option applicable to any Shares purchased upon exercise
of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award shall lapse as
to all such Shares, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place
at the time and in the manner contemplated.  To the extent it has not been
previously exercised, an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance
Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed
action.

        (c) Merger or Asset Sale.  In the event of a merger of the Company with
            --------------------                                               
or into another corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of
the Company, each outstanding Option, Stock Purchase Right and Long-Term
Performance Award shall be assumed or an equivalent option or right substituted
by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor
corporation, or in the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or
substitute for the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award,
the Optionee shall have the right to exercise the Option, Stock Purchase Right
or Long-Term Performance Award as to all of the Optioned Stock, including Shares
as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable.  If an Option, Stock Purchase
Right or Long-Term Performance Award is exercisable in lieu of assumption or
substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Administrator shall
notify the Optionee in writing or electronically that the Option, Stock Purchase
Right or Long-Term Performance Award shall be fully exercisable for a period of
fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option, Stock Purchase
Right or Long-Term Performance Award shall terminate upon the expiration of such
period.  For the purposes of this paragraph, the Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Award shall be considered assumed if, following the merger
or sale of assets, the option or right confers the right to purchase or receive,
for each Share of Optioned Stock subject to the

                                                                         Page 14
<PAGE>
 
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award immediately prior to
the merger or sale of assets, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other
securities or property) received in the merger or sale of assets by holders of
Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and
if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration
chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); provided,
however, that if such consideration received in the merger or sale of assets was
not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the
Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for
the consideration to be received upon the exercise of the Option, Stock Purchase
Right or Long-Term Performance Award, for each Share of Optioned Stock subject
to the Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award, to be solely
common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market
value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the
merger or sale of assets.

    15. Date of Grant.  The date of grant of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or
        -------------                                                          
Long-Term Performance Award shall be, for all purposes, the date on which the
Administrator makes the determination granting such Option, Stock Purchase Right
or Long-Term Performance Award, or such other later date as is determined by the
Administrator.  Notice of the determination shall be provided to each Optionee
within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.

    16. Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
        ------------------------------------- 

        (a) Amendment and Termination.  The Board may at any time amend, alter,
            -------------------------                                          
suspend or terminate the Plan.

        (b) Stockholder Approval.  The Company shall obtain stockholder approval
            --------------------                                                
of any Plan amendment to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with Rule
16b-3 or with Sections 162(m) or 422 of the Code (or any successor rule or
statute or other applicable law, rule or regulation, including the requirements
of any exchange or quotation system on which the Common Stock is listed or
quoted).  Such stockholder approval, if required, shall be obtained in such a
manner and to such a degree as is required by the applicable law, rule or
regulation.

        (c) Effect of Amendment or Termination.  No amendment, alteration,
            ----------------------------------                            
suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Optionee,
unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and the Administrator,
which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the Company.

    17. Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.
        ---------------------------------- 

        (a) Legal Compliance.  Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the
            ----------------                                             
exercise of an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award
unless the exercise of such Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with
all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities
Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder, Applicable Laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange or
quotation system upon which the

                                                                         Page 15
<PAGE>
 
Shares may then be listed or quoted, and shall be further subject to the
approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.

        (b) Investment Representations.  As a condition to the exercise of an
            --------------------------                                       
Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award, the Company may
require the person exercising such Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term
Performance Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise that
the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present
intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for
the Company, such a representation is required.

    18.  Liability of Company.
         -------------------- 

         (a) Inability to Obtain Authority.  The inability of the Company to
             -----------------------------                                  
obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority
is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and
sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in
respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite
authority shall not have been obtained.

         (b) Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares.  If the Optioned Stock covered by
             --------------------------------                                   
an Option, Stock Purchase Right or Long-Term Performance Award exceeds, as of
the date of grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan
without additional stockholder approval, such Option, Stock Purchase Right or
Long-Term Performance Award shall be void with respect to such excess Optioned
Stock, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the
number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with
Section 16(b) of the Plan.

    19.  Reservation of Shares.  The Company, during the term of this Plan, will
         ---------------------                                                  
at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.

    20. Stockholder Approval.  Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to
        --------------------                                              
approval by the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or
after the date the Plan is adopted.  Such stockholder approval shall be obtained
in the manner and to the degree required under applicable federal and state law.

                                                                         Page 16
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.12
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>REGISTRANTS 1998 EMPLOYEE QUALIFIED STOCK PURCHASE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.12


                                 AUTODESK, INC.

                   1998 EMPLOYEE QUALIFIED STOCK PURCHASE PLAN



         The following constitute the provisions of the 1998 Employee Qualified
Stock Purchase Plan (herein called the "Plan") of Autodesk, Inc. (herein called
the "Company").

         1.       Purpose. The purpose of the Plan is to provide employees of
the Company and its Designated Subsidiaries with an opportunity to purchase
Common Stock of the Company through accumulated payroll deductions. It is the
intention of the Company to have the Plan qualify as an "Employee Stock
Purchase Plan" under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The
provisions of the Plan shall, accordingly, be construed so as to extend and
limit participation in a manner consistent with the requirements of that
section of the Code.

         2.       Definitions.

                  (a) "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.

                  (b) "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

                  (c) "Common Stock" shall mean the Common Stock, par value
$0.01 per share, of the Company.

                  (d) "Company" shall mean Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware
corporation.

                  (e) "Compensation" shall mean all regular straight time
earnings, payments for overtime, shift premium and commissions, but exclusive of
any incentive compensation, incentive payments, bonuses, or other compensation.

                  (f) "Continuous Status as an Employee" shall mean the absence
of any interruption or termination of service as an Employee. Continuous Status
as an Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of a leave of
absence agreed to in writing by the Company, provided that such leave is for a
period of not more than 90 days or reemployment upon the expiration of such
leave is guaranteed by contract or statute.

                  (g) "Designated Subsidiaries" shall mean the Subsidiaries
which have been designated by the Board from time to time in its sole discretion
as eligible to participate in the Plan.
<PAGE>
 
                  (h) "Employee" shall mean any person, including an officer,
who is customarily employed for at least twenty (20) hours per week and more
than five (5) months in a calendar year by the Company or one of its Designated
Subsidiaries.

                  (i) "Exercise Date" shall mean the date one day prior to the
date six (6) months, twelve (12) months, eighteen (18) months or twenty-four
(24) months after the Offering Date of each Offering Period.

                  (j) "Exercise Period" shall mean a period commencing on an
Offering Date or on the day after an Exercise Date and terminating one day prior
to the date six (6) months later.

                  (k) "Offering Period" shall mean a period of twenty-four (24)
months consisting of four (4) six-month Exercise Periods during which options
granted pursuant to the Plan may be exercised.

                  (l) "Offering Date" shall mean the first day of each Offering
Period of the Plan.

                  (m) "Plan"  shall mean this 1998 Employee Qualified Stock 
Purchase Plan.

                  (n) "Subsidiary" shall mean a corporation, domestic or
foreign, of which not less than 50% of the voting shares are held by the Company
or a Subsidiary, whether or not such corporation now exists or is hereafter
organized or acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary.

         3.       Eligibility.

                  (a) Any Employee as defined in paragraph 2 who shall be
employed by the Company on the Offering Date shall be eligible to participate in
the Plan, subject to limitations imposed by Section 423(b) of the Code.

                  (b) Any provisions of the Plan to the contrary
notwithstanding, no Employee shall be granted an option under the Plan (i) if,
immediately after the grant, such Employee (or any other person whose stock
would be attributed to such Employee pursuant to Section 424(d) of the Code)
would own stock and/or hold outstanding options to purchase stock possessing
five percent (5%) or more of the total combined voting power or value of all
classes of stock of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company, or (ii)
which permits such Employee's rights to purchase stock under all employee stock
purchase plans of the Company and its subsidiaries to accrue at a rate which
exceeds Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000) of fair market value of such
stock (determined at the time such option is granted) for each calendar year in
which such option is outstanding at any time.

         4.       Offering Periods. The Plan shall be implemented by twenty-
four (24) month Offering Periods beginning every six (6) months, until
terminated in accordance with Section 20 hereof; provided that, the first
Offering Period shall begin on the first business day after the Company's
Special Meeting on March 31,1998. The Board of Directors of the Company shall
have the power to change the duration of offering periods with respect to
future offerings without stockholder approval

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
if such change is announced at least fifteen (15) days prior to the
scheduled beginning of the first offering period to be affected.

         5.       Participation.

                  (a) An eligible Employee may become a participant in the Plan
by completing a subscription agreement authorizing payroll deductions on the
form provided by the Company and filing it with the Company's payroll office at
least one week prior to the applicable Offering Date, unless a later time for
filing the subscription agreement is set by the Board for all eligible Employees
with respect to a given offering.

                  (b) Payroll deductions for a participant shall continue at the
rate specified in the subscription agreement throughout the Offering Period with
automatic re-enrollment for the Offering Period which commences the day after
the Exercise Date at the same rate specified in the original subscription
agreement, subject to any change in subscription rate made pursuant to Section
6(c) or (d), unless sooner terminated by the participant as provided in Section
10.

         6.       Payroll Deductions.

                  (a) At the time a participant files his or her subscription
agreement, such participant shall elect to have payroll deductions made on each
payday during the offering period in an amount not exceeding fifteen percent
(15%) of his or her Compensation on each payroll date. The aggregate of such
payroll deductions during any offering period shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of his or her aggregate Compensation during said offering period.

                  (b) All payroll deductions made by a participant shall be
credited to his or her account under the Plan. A participant may not make any
additional payments into such account.

                  (c) A participant may discontinue his or her participation in
the Plan as provided in Section 11, or may decrease, but not increase, the rate
of his or her payroll deductions during the Offering Period by completing or
filing with the Company a form provided by the Company notifying the payroll
office of such withdrawal or reduction of withholding rate. The change in rate
shall be effective as of the next pay date following receipt of the form or at
such other time as the Company and the participant may agree.

                  (d) A participant may increase or decrease the rate of
withholding for a new Offering Period so long as such election is made prior to
the commencement of such Offering Period (subject to the limitations set forth
in Section 6(a)).

         7.       Grant of Option.

                  (a) On the Offering Date of each Offering Period, each
eligible Employee participating in the Plan shall be granted an option to
purchase on each Exercise Date during such Offering Period (at the per share
option price) up to a number of shares of the Company's Common 

                                      -3-
<PAGE>
 
Stock determined by dividing such Employee's payroll deductions to be
accumulated prior to such Exercise Date by the lower of (i) eighty-five percent
(85%) of the fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the
Offering Date or (ii) eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of a
share of the Company's Common Stock on the Exercise Date; provided that in no
event shall an Employee be permitted to purchase during an Offering Period a
number of shares in excess of a number determined by dividing $50,000 by the
fair market value of a share of the Company's Common Stock on the Offering Date,
subject to the limitations set forth in Sections 3(b) and 13 hereof. Fair market
value of a share of the Company's Common Stock shall be determined as provided
in Section 7(b) herein.

                  (b) The option price per share of the shares offered in a
given Exercise Period shall be the lower of: (i) 85% of the fair market value of
a share of the Common Stock of the Company on the Offering Date; or (ii) 85% of
the fair market value of a share of the Common Stock of the Company on the
Exercise Date. The fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on a given
date shall be the closing price as quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc.'s
National Market or, if traded on a securities exchange, the closing price on
such exchange.

         8.       Exercise of Option. Unless a participant withdraws from the
Plan as provided in Section 11, his or her option for the purchase of shares
will be exercised automatically on each Exercise Date of the Offering Period,
and the maximum number of full shares subject to option will be purchased for
him or her at the applicable option price with the accumulated payroll
deductions in his or her account. During his or her lifetime, a participant's
option to purchase shares hereunder is exercisable only by him or her.

         9.       Delivery. As promptly as practicable after the Exercise Date
of each offering, the Company shall arrange the delivery to each participant,
as appropriate, of a certificate representing the shares purchased upon
exercise of his or her option. Any cash remaining which is insufficient to
purchase a full share of Common Stock at the termination of each Exercise
Period shall be applied to such participant's account in the subsequent
Exercise Period unless the participant requests withdrawal of such cash.

         10.      Automatic Transfer to Low Price Offering Period. In the
event that the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock is lower on an
Exercise Date than it was on the first Offering Date for that Offering Period,
all Employees participating in the Plan on the Exercise Date shall be deemed
to have withdrawn from the Offering Period immediately after the exercise of
their option on such Exercise Date and to have enrolled as participants in a
new Offering Period which begins on or about the day following such Exercise
Date. A participant may elect to remain in the previous Offering Period by
filing a written statement declaring such election with the Company prior to
the time of the automatic change to the new Offering Period.

         11.      Withdrawal; Termination of Employment.

                  (a) A participant may withdraw all but not less than all the
payroll deductions credited to his or her account under the Plan at any time
prior to the Exercise Date of the Offering 

                                      -4-
<PAGE>
 
Period by giving written notice to the Company. All of the participant's
payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be paid to him or her at
the next pay date after receipt of his or her notice of withdrawal and his or
her option for the current period will be automatically terminated, and no
further payroll deductions for the purchase of shares will be made during the
Offering Period.

                  (b) Upon termination of the participant's Continuous Status as
an Employee prior to the Exercise Date for any reason, including retirement or
death, the payroll deductions credited to his or her account will be returned to
the participant's or, in the case the of participant's death, to the person or
persons entitled thereto under Section 15, and his or her option will be
automatically terminated.

                  (c) A participant's withdrawal from an offering will not have
any effect upon his or her eligibility to participate in a succeeding offering
or in any similar plan which may hereafter be adopted by the Company.

         12.      Interest. No interest shall accrue on the payroll deductions
of a participant in the Plan.

         13.      Stock.

                  (a) The maximum number of shares of the Company's Common Stock
which shall be made available for sale under the Plan shall be 2,000,000 shares,
plus an annual increase to be made on the last day of the immediately preceding
fiscal year equal to the lesser of (i) 2,500,000 shares, (ii) 2% of the Issued
Shares (as defined below) on such date or (iii) a lesser amount determined by
the Board, subject to adjustment upon changes in capitalization of the Company
as provided in Section 19 hereof. "Issued Shares" shall mean the number of
shares of Common Stock of the Company outstanding on such date plus any shares
reacquired by the Company during the fiscal year that ends on such date. If the
total number of shares which would otherwise be subject to options granted
pursuant to Section 7(a) hereof on the Exercise Date of an Offering Period
exceeds the number of shares then available under the Plan (after deduction of
all shares for which options have been exercised or are then outstanding), the
Company shall make a pro rata allocation of the shares remaining available for
option grant in as uniform a manner as shall be practicable and as it shall
determine to be equitable. In such event, the Company shall give written notice
of such reduction of the number of shares subject to the option to each Employee
affected thereby and shall similarly reduce the rate of payroll deductions, if
necessary.

                  (b) The participant will have no interest or voting right in
shares covered by his or her option until such option has been exercised.

                  (c) Shares to be delivered to a participant under the Plan
will be registered in the name of the participant or in the name of the
participant and his or her spouse.

         14.      Administration. The Plan shall be administered by the Board of
Directors of the Company or a committee appointed by the Board. The
administration, interpretation or application 

                                      -5-
<PAGE>
 
of the Plan by the Board or its committee shall be final, conclusive and
binding upon all participants. Members of the Board who are eligible Employees
are permitted to participate in the Plan, provided that:

                  (a) Members of the Board who are eligible to participate in
the Plan may not vote on any matter affecting the administration of the Plan or
the grant of any option pursuant to the Plan.

                  (b) If a Committee is established to administer the Plan, no
member of the Board who is eligible to participate in the Plan may be a member
of the Committee.

         15.      Designation of Beneficiary.

                  (a) A participant may file a written designation of a
beneficiary who is to receive any shares and cash, if any, from the
participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death
subsequent to the end of the offering period but prior to delivery to such
participant of such shares and cash. In addition, a participant may file a
written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any cash from the
participant's account under the Plan in the event of such participant's death
prior to the Exercise Date of the offering period.

                  (b) Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the
participant at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of a
participant and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the
Plan who is living at the time of such participant's death, the Company shall
deliver such shares and/or cash to the executor or administrator of the estate
of the participant, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed
(to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may deliver
such shares and/or cash to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or
relatives of the participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to
the Company, then to such other person as the Company may designate.

         16.      Transferability. Neither payroll deductions credited to a
participant's account nor any rights with regard to the exercise of an option or
to receive shares under the Plan may be assigned, transferred, pledged or
otherwise disposed of in any way (other than by will, the laws of descent and
distribution or as provided in Section 15 hereof) by the participant. Any such
attempt at assignment, transfer, pledge or other disposition shall be without
effect, except that the Company may treat such act as an election to withdraw
funds in accordance with Section 11.

         17.      Use of Funds. All payroll deductions received or held by the
Company under the Plan may be used by the Company for any corporate purpose, and
the Company shall not be obligated to segregate such payroll deductions.

         18. Reports. Individual accounts will be maintained for each
participant in the Plan. Statements of account will be given to participating
Employees annually promptly following the Exercise Date, which statements will
set forth the amounts of payroll deductions, the per share purchase price, the
number of shares purchased and the remaining cash balance, if any.

                                      -6-
<PAGE>
 
         19. Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization. Subject to any required
action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of shares of Common Stock
covered by each option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised and the
number of shares of Common Stock which have been authorized for issuance under
the Plan but have not yet been placed under option (collectively, the
"Reserves"), as well as the price per share of Common Stock covered by each
option under the Plan which has not yet been exercised, shall be proportionately
adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common
Stock resulting from a stock split or the payment of a stock dividend (but only
on the Common Stock) or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares
of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company;
provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company
shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration."
Such adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect
shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no
issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible
into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason
thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common
Stock subject to an option.

         In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company,
the offering period will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such
proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. In the event of a
proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the
merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each option under the
Plan shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such
successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation,
unless the Board determines, in the exercise of its sole discretion and in lieu
of such assumption or substitution, that the participant shall have the right to
exercise the option as to all of the optioned stock, including shares as to
which the option would not otherwise be exercisable. If the Board makes an
option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a
merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the participant that the option
shall be fully exercisable for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of
such notice, and the option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.

         The Board may, if it so determines in the exercise of its sole
discretion, also make provision for adjusting the Reserves, as well as the price
per share of Common Stock covered by each outstanding option, in the event that
the Company effects one or more reorganizations, recapitalizations, rights
offerings or other increases or reductions of shares of its outstanding Common
Stock.

         20. Amendment or Termination. The Board of Directors of the Company may
at any time terminate or amend the Plan. No such termination can affect options
previously granted, nor may an amendment make any change in any option
theretofore granted which adversely affects the rights of any participant. In
addition, to the extent necessary to comply with Rule 16b-3 under the Act or
under Section 423 of the Code (or any successor rule or provision or any other
applicable law or regulation), the Company shall obtain stockholder approval in
such a manner and to such a degree as so required.

         21. Notices. All notices or other communications by a participant to
the Company under 

                                      -7-
<PAGE>
 
or in connection with the Plan shall be deemed to have been duly given when
received in the form specified by the Company at the location, or by the person,
designated by the Company for the receipt thereof.

         22.      Stockholder Approval.

                  (a) Continuance of the Plan shall be subject to approval by
the stockholders of the Company within twelve (12) months before or after the
date the Plan is adopted. If such stockholder approval is obtained at a duly
held stockholders' meeting, it must be obtained by the affirmative vote of the
holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company, or if such
stockholder approval is obtained by written consent, it must be obtained by the
unanimous written consent of all stockholders of the Company; provided, however,
that approval at a meeting or by written consent may be obtained by a lesser
degree of stockholder approval if the Board determines, in its discretion after
consultation with the Company's legal counsel, that such a lesser degree of
stockholder approval will comply with all applicable laws and will not adversely
affect the qualification of the Plan under Section 423 of the Code.

                  (b) If and in the event that the Company registers any class
of equity securities pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, any required
approval of the stockholders of the Company obtained after such registration
shall be solicited substantially in accordance with Section 14(a) of the
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

                  (c) If any required approval by the stockholders of the Plan
itself or of any amendment thereto is solicited at any time otherwise than in
the manner described in paragraph 21(b) hereof, then the Company shall, at or
prior to the first annual meeting of stockholders held subsequent to the later
of (1) the first registration of any class of equity securities of the Company
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or (2) the granting of an option hereunder
to an officer or director after such registration, do the following:

                           (i)  furnish in writing to the holders entitled 
to vote for the Plan substantially the same information which would be
required (if proxies to be voted with respect to approval or disapproval of the
Plan or amendment were then being solicited) by the rules and regulations in
effect under Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act at the time such information is
furnished; and

                           (ii) file with, or mail for filing to, the Securities
and Exchange Commission four copies of the written information referred to
in subsection (i) hereof not later than the date on which such information is
first sent or given to stockholders.

         23.      Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares. Shares shall not be
issued with respect to an option unless the exercise of such option and the
issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all
applicable provisions of law, domestic or foreign, including, without
limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and
the requirements of any stock

                                      -8-
<PAGE>
 
exchange upon which the shares may then be listed, and shall be further
subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such
compliance.

         As a condition to the exercise of an option, the Company may require
the person exercising such option to represent and warrant at the time of any
such exercise that the shares are being purchased only for investment and
without any present intention to sell or distribute such shares if, in the
opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any
of the aforementioned applicable provisions of law.

         24. Term of Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon the earlier to
occur of its adoption by the Board of Directors or its approval by the
stockholders of the Company as described in paragraph 22. It shall continue in
effect for a term of twenty (20) years unless sooner terminated under
paragraph 20.

                                      -9-
<PAGE>
 
                                 AUTODESK, INC.

                     EMPLOYEE QUALIFIED STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
                             SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT


_____ Original Application                           Date:________________
_____ Change in Payroll Deduction Rate                      
_____ Change of Beneficiary(ies)


1.       __________________________________ hereby elects to participate in the
         Autodesk, Inc. Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan (the "Stock
         Purchase Plan") and subscribes to purchase shares of the Company's
         Common Stock, without par value, in accordance with this Subscription
         Agreement and the Stock Purchase Plan.

2.       I hereby authorize payroll deductions from each paycheck in the amount
         of _____% (maximum 15%) of my Compensation on each payday during the
         Offering Period in accordance with the Stock Purchase Plan. Such
         deductions are to continue for succeeding Offering Periods until I give
         written instructions for a change in or termination of such deductions.

3.       I understand that said payroll deductions shall be accumulated for the
         purchase of shares of Common Stock, without par value, at the
         applicable purchase price determined in accordance with the Stock
         Purchase Plan. I further understand that, except as otherwise set forth
         in the Stock Purchase Plan, shares will be purchased for me
         automatically on each Exercise Date of the offering period unless I
         otherwise withdraw from the Stock Purchase Plan by giving written
         notice to the Company for such purpose.

4.       I have received a copy of the complete "Autodesk, Inc. Employee
         Qualified Stock Purchase Plan." I understand that my participation in
         the Stock Purchase Plan is in all respects subject to the terms of the
         Plan. I have been provided with a prospectus describing the Stock
         Purchase Plan. I understand that I may withdraw from the Stock Purchase
         Plan and have payroll deductions refunded (without interest) on the
         next payroll date following notice of withdrawal at any time during the
         Offering Period.

5.       Shares purchased for me under the Stock Purchase Plan should be issued 
         in the name(s) of:
         _____________________________________________________________________.
  
6.       I understand that if I dispose of any shares received by me pursuant
         to the Stock Purchase Plan within 2 years after the Offering Date
         (the first day of the offering period during which I purchased such
         shares) or within one year after the date on which such shares were
         transferred to me, I will be treated for federal income tax purposes
         as having received ordinary income at the time of such disposition in
         an amount equal to the excess of the fair market value of the shares
         at the time such shares were transferred to me over the price which
<PAGE>
 
         I paid for the shares, and that I may be required to provide income tax
         withholding on that amount. I hereby agree to notify the Company in
         writing within 30 days after the date of any such the expiration of the
         two-year and one-year holding periods, I understand that I will be
         treated for federal income tax purposes as having received income only
         at the time of such disposition, and that such income will be treated
         as ordinary income only to the extent of an amount equal to the lesser
         of (1) the excess of the fair market value of the shares at the time of
         such disposition over the purchase price which I paid for the shares
         under the option, or (2) the excess of the fair market value of the
         shares over the option price, measured as if the option had been
         exercised on the Offering Date. The remainder of the gain or loss, if
         any, recognized on such disposition will be treated as capital gain or
         loss. The federal income tax treatment of ordinary income and capital
         gain and loss is described in the Company's prospectus relating to the
         Stock Purchase Plan.

7.       I hereby agree to be bound by the terms of the Stock Purchase Plan. The
         effectiveness of this Subscription Agreement is dependent upon my
         eligibility to participate in the Stock Purchase Plan.

8.       In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my
         beneficiary(ies) to receive all payments and shares due me under the
         Stock Purchase Plan:


NAME: (Please print) ___________________________________________________________
                         (First)            (Middle)            (Last)



Relationship
                                           (Address)


NAME: (Please print) ___________________________________________________________
                         (First)            (Middle)            (Last)



Relationship
                                           (Address)


Employee's Social
Security Number: __________________________

                                      -2-
<PAGE>
 
Employee's Address:* _________________________________________________



I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT SHALL REMAIN IN EFFECT THROUGHOUT
SUCCESSIVE OFFERING PERIODS UNLESS TERMINATED BY ME.


Dated: ___________________    ___________________________________________
                              Signature of Employee





- --------
*    It is the  participant's  responsibility to notify the Company's stock
     administrator in the event of a change of address.

                                      -3-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.1

Financial Review

<TABLE> 

<C> <S>  
21  Selected Five-Year Financial Data

22  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

33  Consolidated Statement of Income

34  Consolidated Balance Sheet

35  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

36  Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity

37  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

51  Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

52  Directors, Executive Officers, and Officers
</TABLE> 
<PAGE>
 
Selected Five-Year Financial Data

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                        -----------------------------

(In thousands, except per share data,
percentages, and employees)              1998         1997/1/      1996/1/     1995/1/       1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>
For the fiscal year
Net revenues                            $617,126        $496,693     $534,167    $454,612     $405,596
Cost of revenues                          70,858          64,217       66,812      61,725       63,338
Marketing and sales                      237,107         199,939      183,550     154,562      137,788
Research and development                 122,432          93,702       78,678      65,176       56,231
General and administrative                83,287          74,280       76,100      65,738       58,536
Nonrecurring charges/2/                   58,087           4,738           --      25,500           --
Income from operations                    45,355          59,817      129,027      81,911       89,703
Interest and other income,
 net                                       9,644           6,695        9,253       7,233        7,055
Income before income taxes                54,999          66,512      138,280      89,144       96,758
Net income                                15,364          41,571       87,788      56,606       62,166
Net cash provided by
 operating activities                    158,612         114,183      106,632     104,412       88,853
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At year end
Cash, cash equivalents, and
 marketable securities                  $301,319        $286,308     $272,402    $255,373     $217,011
Current assets                           307,702         297,671      335,013     360,725      279,557
Total assets                             533,683         492,233      517,929     482,076      404,874
Current liabilities                      199,487         150,171      144,295     154,990      102,316
Long-term liabilities                     31,064          33,948       31,306       3,602        5,679
Total liabilities                        230,551         184,119      175,601     158,592      107,995
Put warrants                                  --          64,500           --          --           --
Stockholders' equity                     303,132         243,614      342,328     323,484      296,879
Working capital                          108,215         147,500      190,718     205,735      177,241
Number of employees                        2,470           2,044        1,894       1,788        1,788
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Common stock data
Basic net income per
 share/2/, /3/                          $   0.33        $   0.91     $   1.86    $   1.20     $   1.30
Diluted net income per
 share/2/, /3/                          $   0.31        $   0.88     $   1.76    $   1.14     $   1.25
Book value per share                    $   6.67        $   5.40     $   7.39    $   6.85     $   6.25
Dividends paid per share                $   0.24        $   0.24     $   0.24    $   0.24     $   0.24
Shares used in computing
 basic net income per
 share/3/                                 46,760          45,540       47,090      47,320       47,770
Shares used in computing
 diluted net income per
 share/3/                                 49,860          47,190       49,800      49,840       49,740
Shares outstanding at year
 end                                      45,465          45,108       46,351      47,241       47,480
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financial ratios
Current ratio                                1.5             2.0          2.3         2.3          2.7
Return on net revenues/2/                    2.5%            8.4%        16.4%       12.5%        15.3%
Return on average assets/2/                  3.0%            8.2%        17.6%       12.8%        16.3%
Return on average                                
 stockholders' equity/2/                     5.6%           14.2%        26.4%       18.2%        22.0%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Growth percentages
Net revenues                                24.2%           (7.0%)       17.5%       12.1%        14.8%
Net income/2/                              (63.0%)         (52.6%)       55.1%       (8.9%)       41.7%
Basic net income per
 share/2/, /3/                             (63.7%)         (51.1%)       55.0%       (7.7%)       42.9%
Diluted net income per share/2/,
/3/                                        (64.8%)         (50.0%)       54.4%       (8.8%)       42.0%
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
/1/ Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1997, 1996, and 1995 amounts
    presented herein to conform to the 1998 presentation.

/2/ Amounts include the effects of nonrecurring charges of $58.1 million, $4.7
    million, and $25.5 million recorded in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1995,
    respectively. Nonrecurring charges consist of charges for purchased in-
    process research and development from business acquisitions in fiscal years
    1998 and 1997. The fiscal year 1995 amount represents a legal judgment
    against the Company.

/3/ Amounts have been restated to comply with the provisions of Statement of
    Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share."
<PAGE>
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations

  The discussion in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" contains trend analyses and other forward-looking
statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and
Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. All statements, trend
analyses, and other information contained herein relative to markets for
Autodesk's products and trends in revenues, as well as other statements
including such words as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect,"
"goal," and "intend" and other similar expressions, constitute forward-looking
statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and
economic risks, and Autodesk's actual results could differ materially from those
set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth
elsewhere herein, including "Certain Risk Factors Which May Impact Future
Operating Results."

                             Results of Operations
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The following table sets forth, as a percentage of net revenues, consolidated
statement of income data for the periods indicated. These operating results are
not necessarily indicative of results for any future periods.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                ------------------------------
                                                  1998        1997        1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<S>                                           <C>         <C>         <C>
Net revenues                                       100%        100%       100%
Costs and expenses:              
  Cost of revenues                                  12          13         13
  Marketing and sales                               38          40         34
  Research and development                          20          19         15
  General and administrative                        14          15         14
  Nonrecurring charges                               9           1         --
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
     Total costs and expenses                       93          88         76
Income from operations                               7          12         24
Interest and other income, net                       2           1          2
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
Income before income taxes                           9          13         26
Provision for income taxes                           6           5          9
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------  
     Net income                                      3%          8%        17%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
</TABLE>

Net revenues

  Autodesk's consolidated net revenues in fiscal year 1998 were $617.1 million,
which represented a 24.2 percent increase from fiscal year 1997 net revenues of
$496.7 million. Revenues in the Americas and Europe increased $101.0 million or
54 percent and $19.3 million or 10 percent, respectively, from the prior fiscal
year, while remaining flat in Asia Pacific. These increases were due largely to
higher sales of AutoCAD(R)  software, the Company's flagship product, and
significant growth in the Company's market group revenues. The most recent
release of AutoCAD software, AutoCAD Release 14 ("AutoCAD R14"), was released in
the United States in May 1997 and in most other regions shortly thereafter. Also
contributing to the increased revenues in fiscal year 1998 were revenues
contributed by Softdesk, which was acquired by the Company in March 1997. Net
revenues in fiscal year 1997 decreased 7 percent from the $534.2 million posted
in fiscal year 1996, reflecting primarily slowdowns in the US dealer channel,
Germany, Switzerland, and France. The lower fiscal 1997 revenues reflected
<PAGE>
 
slowing sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD update software as the then most recent
version of the product, Release 13, entered the end of its product life cycle.

  AutoCAD and AutoCAD updates represented approximately 70 percent, 70 percent,
and 80 percent of total consolidated revenues in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and
1996, respectively. During fiscal year 1998, approximately 244,000 new AutoCAD
licenses were added worldwide, compared to 207,000 and 233,000 licenses added
during fiscal years 1997 and 1996, respectively. AutoCAD upgrade revenues were
$108 million, $45 million, and $49 million in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively.

  Foreign revenues, including exports from the United States, accounted for
approximately 58 percent, 65 percent, and 64 percent of consolidated revenues in
fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. The stronger value of the
dollar, relative to international currencies, primarily the Japanese yen and
German mark, negatively affected international revenues by approximately $30
million in fiscal year 1998 compared to fiscal year 1997 and $17 million in
fiscal year 1997 compared to fiscal year 1996. Fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates positively impacted international operating expenses by $11 million in
fiscal year 1998, and did not materially impact operating expenses in fiscal
years 1997 and 1996. A summary of revenues by geographic area is presented in
Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.

  The Company records product returns as a reduction of revenues. In fiscal
years 1998, 1997, and 1996, product returns, consisting principally of stock
rotation, totaled $35.4 million, $44.3 million, and $51.2 million (or 6 percent,
9 percent, and 9 percent of total consolidated revenues, respectively). Total
product returns decreased $8.9 million from fiscal year 1997 to fiscal year 1998
due largely to continued management focus on the level of inventories with the
Company's resellers, sell-through sales activities and programs in Autodesk's
distribution channel, and fewer returns associated with AutoCAD R14 compared to
the prior version. Returns of AutoCAD products accounted for 40 percent, 61
percent, and 79 percent of total product returns in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and
1996, respectively. The lower level of product returns in fiscal year 1998
compared to fiscal years 1997 and 1996 reflected a lower level of product
rotation that had previously been associated with performance issues relating to
AutoCAD Release 13 and customers' perception issues associated with this
product.

  The nature and technical complexity of Autodesk's software is such that defect
corrections have occurred in the past and may occur in future releases of
AutoCAD and other products offered by the Company. As is the case with most
complex software, the Company has experienced performance issues with previous
releases of its AutoCAD software, and performance issues could occur in future
releases of AutoCAD and other products offered by the Company.

  Delays in the introduction of planned future product releases, or failure to
achieve significant customer acceptance for these new products, may have a
material adverse effect on the Company's revenues and consolidated results of
operations in future periods. Additionally, slowdowns in any of the Company's
geographical markets, including the recent economic instability in certain
countries of the Asia Pacific region, could also have a material adverse effect
on Autodesk's business and consolidated results of operations. The foregoing
forward-looking information is based upon the Company's current expectations.
Actual results could differ materially for the reasons noted and due to other
risks, including, but not limited to, those mentioned above and otherwise
discussed under "Certain Risk Factors Which May Impact Future Operating
Results."

Cost of revenues

  Cost of revenues includes the purchase of disks and compact disks (CD-ROMs),
costs associated with transferring the Company's software to electronic media,
printing of user manuals and packaging materials, freight, royalties,
amortization of purchased technology and capitalized software, and, in certain
foreign markets, software protection locks. When expressed as a percentage of
net revenues, cost of revenues decreased approximately 1 percent in fiscal year
1998 as compared to the prior fiscal year. Gross margins in fiscal year 1998
were positively impacted by continued operational efficiencies, lower royalties
for licensed technology embedded in Autodesk's products, and the geographic
distribution of sales. The one-half of 1 percent decrease in gross margins
between fiscal year 1996 and 1997 was largely due to the mix of product sales,
particularly the fact that a smaller portion of revenues was contributed by
AutoCAD and a larger portion was contributed by AutoCAD LT(R), and, to a lesser
extent, the impact of increased fixed costs on a lower net revenue base. In the
future, cost of revenues as a 
<PAGE>
 
percentage of net revenues may be impacted by the mix of product sales, royalty
rates for licensed technology embedded in Autodesk's products, and the
geographic distribution of sales.

Marketing and sales

  Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, sales commissions, travel, and
facility costs for the Company's marketing, sales, dealer training, and support
personnel. These expenses also include programs aimed at increasing revenues,
such as advertising, trade shows, and expositions, as well as various sales and
promotional programs designed for specific sales channels and end users. When
expressed as a percentage of net revenues, marketing and sales expenses
decreased from 40 percent in fiscal year 1997 to 38 percent in fiscal year 1998.
Actual fiscal year 1998 marketing and sales expenses of $237.1 million increased
by 19 percent from the $199.9 million of expense incurred in the prior fiscal
year. The increase in spending was largely due to higher employee costs and
increases in advertising and promotional costs associated with the launch of
AutoCAD Release 14 during the second quarter and other new and enhanced products
released throughout the year. Fiscal year 1997 marketing and sales expenses of
$199.9 million increased 9 percent over fiscal year 1996 expenses of $183.6
million due to higher employee costs as well as marketing and sales costs
associated with the launch of certain new products introduced by the Company's
market groups during fiscal year 1997. The Company expects to continue to invest
in marketing and sales of its products, to develop market opportunities, and to
promote Autodesk's competitive position. Accordingly, the Company expects
marketing and sales expenses to continue to be significant, both in absolute
dollars and as a percentage of net revenues.

Research and development

  Research and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and benefits
for software engineers, contract development fees, expenses associated with
product translations, costs of computer equipment used in software development,
and facilities expenses. During fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, Autodesk
incurred $122.4 million, $93.7 million, and $78.7 million, respectively, of
research and development expenses (excluding capitalized software development
costs of $2.2 million during fiscal year 1998; no software development costs
were capitalized during fiscal years 1997 and 1996). Research and development
expenses increased both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenues
in fiscal year 1998 due to the addition of software engineers, expenses
associated with the development of new and enhanced products, and incremental
research and development personnel expenses associated with the March 1997
business combination with Softdesk. The increase in research and development
expenses between fiscal years 1996 and 1997 was due to the addition of software
engineers and fiscal year 1997 business combinations. The Company anticipates
that research and development expenses will increase in fiscal year 1999 as a
result of product development efforts by the Company's market groups and
incremental personnel costs. Additionally, the Company intends to continue
recruiting and hiring experienced software developers and to consider the
licensing and acquisition of complementary software technologies and businesses.

General and administrative

  General and administrative expenses include the Company's information systems,
finance, human resources, legal, purchasing, and other administrative
operations. Fiscal year 1998 general and administrative expenses of $83.3
million increased 12 percent from the $74.3 million recorded in the prior fiscal
year, primarily due to higher employee-related costs and amortization expense
associated with intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of
Softdesk, Inc. Fiscal year 1997 general and administrative expenses decreased 2
percent from fiscal year 1996 spending of $76.1 million reflecting lower
professional fees, partially offset by increased expenses to maintain and expand
the Company's worldwide information systems. The Company currently expects that
general and administrative expenses in the coming year will increase to support
spending on infrastructure, including continued investment in Autodesk's
worldwide information systems and making any additional corrections to the
Company's hardware, software, and products for compliance in the year 2000.

Nonrecurring charges

  Nonrecurring charges represent charges for purchased in-process research and
development associated with the Company's acquisition of Softdesk, Inc. ($55.1
million) and licensing of 3D/Eye technology ($3.0 million) in fiscal year 
<PAGE>
 
1998 and acquisitions of Teleos Research ($3.2 million) and Argus Technologies,
Inc. ($1.5 million) in fiscal year 1997. For additional information, see
"Business Combinations" in Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements.

  As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, a $25.5
million judgment was entered against Autodesk in fiscal year 1995 on a claim of
trade secret misappropriation brought by Vermont Microsystems, Inc. ("VMI"). The
Company recorded this nonrecurring charge in the fourth quarter of fiscal year
1995. The Company appealed and a reduced judgment was entered against the
Company in February 1998 in the amount of $7.8 million. Because the case is
still subject to post judgment motions and appeals, Autodesk has not reflected
the reduction of damages in its consolidated financial statements.

Interest and other income

  Interest income was $9.8 million, $8.8 million, and $10.6 million for fiscal
years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. The increase in fiscal year 1998
interest income over fiscal year 1997 interest income was largely due to an
increase in average cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances.
The decrease in fiscal year 1997 interest income from the prior fiscal year
resulted from a lower average balance of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable
securities, partially offset by higher interest rates on the Company's
international investment portfolio when compared to the same period in the prior
fiscal year. Interest and other income for fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996 was
net of interest expense of $0.2 million, $1.8 million, and $1.8 million,
respectively.

  The Company has a hedging program to minimize foreign exchange gains or
losses, where possible, from recorded foreign-denominated assets and
liabilities. This program involves the use of forward foreign exchange contracts
in the primary European and Asian currencies. The Company does not hedge
anticipated foreign-denominated revenues and expenses not yet incurred. Gains
(losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions primarily in Europe and
Asia Pacific, which are included in interest and other income, were ($68,000),
($197,000), and $554,000 in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

Provision for income taxes

  Autodesk's effective income tax rate, excluding one-time charges for acquired
in-process research and development associated with the March 1997 acquisition
of Softdesk and fiscal year 1997 acquisitions, was 36.0 percent in fiscal year
1998 compared to 35.5 percent and 36.5 percent in fiscal years 1997 and 1996,
respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate in fiscal year 1998
compared to fiscal year 1997 was principally due to the amortization of certain
intangible assets not deductible for tax purposes and foreign earnings which are
taxed at rates different than the U.S. statutory rate. The decrease in the tax
rate between fiscal years 1997 and 1996 was due largely to a decrease in the
Company's effective state income tax rate. See Note 3 to the consolidated
financial statements for an analysis of the differences between the U.S.
statutory and the effective income tax rates.

  The Company's United States income tax returns for fiscal years ended January
31, 1992 through 1996 are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. On
August 27, 1997, the Internal Revenue Service issued a Notice of Deficiency
proposing increases to the amount of the Company's United States income taxes
for fiscal years 1992 and 1993. On November 25, 1997, the Company filed a
petition with the United States Tax Court to contest these alleged tax
deficiencies. Management believes that adequate amounts have been provided for
any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations.

Recently issued accounting standards

  In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS
130"), which establishes standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive
income and its components in a full set of general-purpose financial statements
and which is required to be adopted by the 
<PAGE>
 
Company beginning in its fiscal year 1999. Additionally, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information"
("SFAS 131"), which establishes standards for the way public business
enterprises report information in annual statements and interim financial
reports regarding operating segments, products and services, geographic areas,
and major customers. SFAS 131 will first be reflected in the Company's fiscal
year 1999 Annual Report and will apply to both annual and interim financial
reporting subsequent to this date. The Company is currently evaluating the
impact of SFAS 130 and SFAS 131 on its financial disclosures.

  In October 1997, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition"
("SOP 97-2"), which supersedes SOP 91-1. SOP 97-2 will be effective beginning
in fiscal year 1999. In March 1998, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 98-
4 ("SOP 98-4"), which amends certain provisions of SOP 97-2. The Company
believes it is in compliance with the provisions of SOP 97-2 as amended by SOP
98-4. However, detailed implementation guidelines for this standard have not
been issued. Once issued, such guidance could lead to unanticipated changes in
the Company's current revenue recognition practices and such changes could be
material to the Company's results of operations.

  In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement
of Position 98-1 ("SOP 98-1"), "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This standard requires companies to
capitalize qualifying computer software costs which are incurred during the
application development stage and amortize them over the software's estimated
useful life. The Company is required to adopt this standard in fiscal year 2000
and is currently evaluating the impact that its adoption will have on the
consolidated financial position and results of operations of the Company.

         Certain Risk Factors Which May Impact Future Operating Results
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Autodesk operates in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of
risks, some of which are beyond the Company's control. The following discussion
highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on
future results of operations.

Competition

  The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of 
desktop computers with continually expanding capabilities at progressively lower
prices contributes to the ease of market entry.  Because of these and other 
factors, competitive conditions in the industry are  likely to intensify in the 
future.  Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced 
revenues and profit margins, and loss of market share, an of which could 
adversely affect Autodesk's business, consolidated results of operations, and 
financial condition.

  The AEC family of products competes directly with software offered by 
companies such as Bentley Systems, Inc. ("Bentley"); Computervision Corporation 
(a subsidiary of Parametric Technologies, Inc.); CADAM Systems Company, Inc.; 
Diehl Graphsoft, Inc.; EaglePoint Software; International Microcomputer 
Software, Inc. ("IMSI"); Intergraph Corporation; Ketiv Technologies; Nemetschek 
Systems, Inc.; and Visio Corporation ("Visio").  the Companys MCAD products 
compete with products offered by Bentley; Visionary Design Systems; 
Hewlett-Packard Corporation; Parametric Technologies, Inc.; Structural Dynamics
Research Corporation; Unigraphics; Computervision Corporation (a subsidiary of 
Parametric Technologies); Dassault System's; Solidworks Corporation (a
subsidiary of Dassault); and Baystate Technologies, Inc. The Company's GIS
Market Group faces competition from Bentley; Intergraph; MapInfo Corporation;
Earth Sciences Research Institute ("ESRI"); and MCI Systemhouse. Kinetix product
offerings compete with products offered by other multimedia companies such as
Adobe Systems Inc.; Macromedia, Inc.; Microsoft Corporation; and Silicon
Graphics, Inc. The Personal Solutions Group family of products competes with
Broderbund Software, Inc.; IMSI; Visio; and Micrografx Inc. Certain of the
competitors of the Company have greater financial, technical, sales and
marketing, and other resources than the Company.

  Autodesk believes that the principal factors affecting competition in its 
markets are price, product reliability, performance, range of useful features, 
continuing product enhancements, reputation, and training.  In addition, the 
availability of third-party application software is a competitive factor within 
the CAD market.  Autodesk believes that it competes favorably in these areas and
that its competitive position will depend, in part, upon its continued ability 
to enhance existing products, and to develop and market new products.

  In April 1998, the Company received notice that the Federal Trade Commission 
("FTC") has undertaken a nonpublic investigation of its business practices.  
The FTC has not made any claims or allegations regarding the Company's current 
business practices or policies, nor have any charges been filed. Autodesk 
intends to cooperate fully with the FTC in its inquiry.  The Company does not 
believe that the investigation will have a material impact on its business or 
results of operations.

Fluctuations in quarterly operating results

  The Company has experienced fluctuations in operating results in interim
periods in certain geographic regions due to seasonality. The Company's
operating results in Europe during the third fiscal quarter are usually impacted
by a slow summer period while the Asia Pacific operations typically experience
seasonal slowing in the third and fourth fiscal quarters.

  The technology industry is particularly susceptible to fluctuations in
operating results within a quarter. While the Company experienced more linear
operating results within fiscal year 1998 compared to prior years, historically
the majority of the Company's orders within a fiscal quarter have frequently
been concentrated within the last weeks or days of that quarter. These
fluctuations are caused by a number of factors, including the relatively long
sales cycle of some of the Company's products, the timing of the introduction of
new products by the Company or its competitors, and other economic factors
experienced by the Company's customers and the geographic regions in which the
Company does business. Additionally, the Company's operating expenses are based
in part on its expectations for future revenues and are relatively fixed in the
short term. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations could have an
immediate and significant adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results
of operations and financial condition.

  Similarly, shortfalls in Autodesk's revenues or earnings from levels expected
by securities analysts could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on
the trading price of the Company's common stock. Moreover, the Company's stock
price is subject to the volatility generally associated with technology stocks
and may also be affected by broader market trends unrelated to performance.
<PAGE>
 
Product concentration

  Autodesk derives a substantial portion of its revenues from sales of AutoCAD
software, AutoCAD updates, and adjacent products which are interoperable with
AutoCAD. As such, any factor adversely affecting sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD
updates, including such factors as product life cycle, market acceptance,
product performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, and the
availability of third-party applications, could have a material adverse effect
on the Company's business and consolidated results of operations.

Product development and introduction

  The software industry is characterized by rapid technological change as well
as changes in customer requirements and preferences. The software products
offered by the Company are internally complex and, despite extensive testing and
quality control, may contain errors or defects ("bugs"), especially when first
introduced. In fiscal year 1996, Autodesk experienced quality and performance
issues associated with AutoCAD Release 13, including issues related to
compatibility with certain hardware platforms and peripheral equipment,
interoperability problems with products designed to work in conjunction with
AutoCAD Release 13, and other issues associated with the software's object-
oriented design. These factors resulted in a high rate of product returns in
fiscal year 1996. There can be no assurance that defects or errors will not
occur in future releases of AutoCAD or other software products offered by the
Company. Such defects or errors could result in corrective releases to the
Company's software products, damage to Autodesk's reputation, loss of revenues,
an increase in product returns, or lack of market acceptance of its products,
any of which could have a material and adverse effect on the Company's business
and consolidated results of operations.

  The Company believes that its future results will depend largely upon its
ability to offer products that compete favorably with respect to price,
reliability, performance, range of useful features, continuing product
enhancements, reputation, and training. Delays or difficulties may result in the
delay or cancellation of planned development projects, and could have a material
and adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of
operations. Further, increased competition in the market for design, mapping, or
multimedia software products could also have a negative impact on the Company's
business and consolidated results of operations. More specifically, gross
margins may be adversely affected if sales of low-end CAD products, which
historically have had lower margins, grow at a faster rate than the Company's
higher-margin products.

  Certain of the Company's historical product development activities have been
performed by independent firms and contractors, while other technologies are
licensed from third parties. Autodesk generally either owns or licenses the
software developed by third parties. Because talented development personnel are
in high demand, there can be no assurance that independent developers, including
those who have developed products for the Company in the past, will be able to
provide development support to the Company in the future. Similarly, there can
be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain and renew license
agreements on favorable terms, if at all, and any failure to do so could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of
operations.

  Autodesk's business strategy has historically depended in large part on its
relationships with third-party developers, who provide products that expand the
functionality of Autodesk's design software. There can be no assurance that
certain developers will not elect to support other products or otherwise
experience disruption in product development and delivery cycles. Such
disruption in particular markets could negatively impact these third-party
developers and end users, which could have a material adverse effect on
Autodesk's business and consolidated results of operations. Further, increased
merger and acquisition activity currently experienced in the technology industry
could affect relationships with other third-party developers, and thus adversely
affect operating results.

International operations

  The Company anticipates that international operations will continue to account
for a significant portion of its consolidated revenues. Risks inherent in the
Company's international operations include the following: unexpected changes in
regulatory practices and tariffs; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign
operations; longer collection cycles; potential changes in tax laws; greater
difficulty in protecting intellectual property; and the impact of fluctuating
exchange rates 
<PAGE>
 
between the US dollar and foreign currencies in markets where Autodesk does
business. During fiscal year 1998, changes in exchange rates from the same
period of the prior fiscal year adversely impacted revenues, principally due to
changes in the Japanese yen and the German mark. As more fully described in Note
2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company's risk management
strategy uses derivative financial instruments in the form of forward foreign
exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging foreign currency market exposures
of underlying assets, liabilities, and other obligations which exist as a part
of its ongoing business operations. The Company does not enter into derivative
contracts for the purpose of trading or speculative transactions. The Company's
international results may also be impacted by general economic and political
conditions in these foreign markets, including the ongoing economic volatility
currently experienced in certain Asia Pacific countries. There can be no
assurance that these and other factors will not have a material adverse effect
on the Company's future international operations and, consequently, on the
Company's business and consolidated results of operations.

Dependence on distribution channels

  The Company sells its software products primarily to distributors and
resellers (value-added resellers, or "VARs"). Autodesk's ability to effectively
distribute products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of
its VAR network. Although the Company has not currently experienced any material
problems with its VAR network, computer software dealers and distributors are
typically not highly capitalized and have experienced difficulties during times
of economic contraction and may do so in the future. While no single customer
accounted for more than 10 percent of the Company's consolidated revenues in
fiscal years 1998, 1997, or 1996, the loss of or a significant reduction in
business with any one of the Company's major international distributors or large
US resellers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and
consolidated results of operations in future periods.

Product returns

  With the exception of certain European distributors, agreements with the
Company's VARs do not contain specific product-return privileges. However,
Autodesk permits its VARs to return product in certain instances, generally
during periods of product transition and during update cycles. While the Company
experienced a decrease in the overall level of product returns in fiscal year
1998 compared to fiscal years 1997 and 1996, management anticipates that product
returns in future periods will continue to be impacted by product update cycles,
new product releases, and software quality.

  Autodesk establishes reserves, including reserves for stock balancing and
product rotation, based on estimated future returns of product and after taking
into account channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions,
and other factors. While the Company maintains strict measures to monitor
channel inventories and to provide appropriate reserves, actual product returns
may differ from the Company's reserve estimates, and such differences could be
material to Autodesk's consolidated financial statements.

Intellectual property

  The Company relies on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws,
trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to protect
its proprietary rights. Despite such efforts to protect the Company's
proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of the
Company's software products or to obtain and use information that Autodesk
regards as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of the Company's software
products is time-consuming and costly. Although the Company is unable to measure
the extent to which piracy of its software products exists, software piracy can
be expected to be a persistent problem. There can be no assurance that the
Company's means of protecting its proprietary rights will be adequate or that
its competitors will not independently develop similar technology. The Company
expects that software product developers will be increasingly subject to
infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in its industry
segments grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments
overlaps. There can be no assurance that infringement or invalidity claims (or
claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be
asserted against the Company or that any such assertions will not have a
material adverse effect on its business. Any such claims, whether with or
without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and
diversion of resources, cause 
<PAGE>
 
product shipment delays, or require the Company to enter into royalty or
licensing agreements. In addition, such royalty or license agreements, if
required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which could have
a material adverse effect on the Company's business and consolidated results of
operations.

  The Company also relies on certain software that it licenses from third
parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed
software and used in its products to perform key functions. There can be no
assurance that these third-party software licenses will continue to be available
on commercially reasonable terms, or that the software will be appropriately
supported, maintained, or enhanced by the licensors. The loss of licenses to, or
inability to support, maintain, and enhance any such software, could result in
increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until
equivalent software could be developed, identified, licensed, and integrated,
which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and
consolidated results of operations.

Risks associated with acquisitions and investments

  The Company periodically acquires or invests in businesses, software products,
and technologies which are complementary to the Company's business through
strategic alliances, debt and equity investments, joint ventures, and the like.
The risks associated with such acquisitions or investments include, among
others, the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the
companies, the failure to realize anticipated synergies, and the diversion of
management's time and attention. In addition, such investments and acquisitions
may involve significant transaction-related costs. There can be no assurance
that the Company will be successful in overcoming such risks or that such
investments and acquisitions will not have a material adverse impact on the
Company's business, financial condition, or results of operations. In addition,
such investments and acquisitions may contribute to potential fluctuations in
quarterly results of operations due to merger-related costs and charges
associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets
recorded in connection with acquisitions, any of which could negatively impact
results of operations for a given period or cause lack of linearity quarter to
quarter in the Company's operating results or financial condition.

  During the first quarter of fiscal year 1998, the Company completed its
acquisition of all of the outstanding stock of Softdesk, Inc. The Company
continues to integrate the operations acquired in the Softdesk merger with its
own. There can be no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the Softdesk
merger and any future mergers or acquisitions will be realized.

Attraction and Retention of Employees

  The continued growth and success of the Company depends significantly on the
continued service of highly skilled employees. Competition for these employees
in today's marketplace, especially in the technology industries, is intense. The
Company's ability to attract and retain employees is dependent on a number of
factors including its continued ability to grant stock incentive awards, which
are described in more detail in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in continuing to
recruit new personnel and to retain existing personnel. The loss of one or more
key employees or the Company's inability to maintain existing employees or
recruit new employees could have a material adverse impact on the Company. In
addition, the Company may experience increased compensation costs to attract and
retain skilled personnel.

Impact of Year 2000

  Some of the computer programs used by the Company in its internal operations
rely on time-sensitive software that was written using two digits rather than
four to identify the applicable year. These programs may recognize a date using
"00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000. This could result in a system
failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including, among
other things, a temporary inability to process transactions, send invoices, or
engage in similar normal business activities. Additionally, as the Company is in
the business of software production, year 2000 issues may affect the Company's
products which are being sold externally.

  The Company launched a six-phase year 2000 compliance program in the third
quarter of fiscal year 1998. The first and second phases, respectively, included
conducting preliminary and detailed assessments of vendor hardware and software
to determine the Company's overall exposure to the year 2000 issue. The third
phase included implementing a year-2000-
<PAGE>
 
compliant procurement process and testing the current desktop operating
environment. These three phases were complete as of the end of fiscal year 1998
and cost approximately $500,000. These costs have been charged to expense as
incurred.

  The fourth phase of the compliance program involves determining a working
plan, including defining the future analyses needed, the scope, and total budget
for required compliance actions. The fifth phase involves the repair or
replacement of any noncompliant hardware or software currently purchased or
developed internally. The sixth and final phase will involve a final systems
check to ensure that all hardware and software in use by the Company is
compliant. The Company expects to spend between $5 million and $6 million during
fiscal year 1999 to complete phases four, five, and six. Of the total cost,
Autodesk plans to capitalize up to $1.7 million as it relates primarily to the
purchase of new software. The remaining $3.3 million to $4.3 million relates to
modifying existing software and will be expensed as incurred in accordance with
EITF 96-14, "Accounting for the Costs Associated with Modifying Computer
Software for the Year 2000." There can be no assurance, however, that there will
not be a delay in the completion of these procedures or that the cost of such
procedures will not exceed original estimates, either of which could have a
material adverse effect on future results of operations.

  In addition to correcting the business and operating systems used by the
Company in the ordinary course of business as described above, the Company has
also reviewed all products it produces internally for sale to third parties to
determine compliance of its products. Products either have been found to be
compliant or are currently being tested for compliance. However, many 
Autodesk/R/ products run on application systems produced and sold by third-party
vendors. There can be no assurance that these application systems will be
converted in a timely manner, and any failure in this regard may cause Autodesk
products not to function as designed. Any future costs associated with ensuring
that the Company's products are compliant with the year 2000 are not expected to
have a material impact on the Company's results of operations or financial
position. The Company anticipates that all compliance procedures will be
completed before the beginning of the Company's fiscal year 2000, which begins
February 1, 1999.

                        Liquidity and Capital Resources
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, which consist primarily of
high-quality municipal bonds, tax-advantaged money market instruments, and US
treasury bills, totaled $301.3 million at January 31, 1998, compared to $286.3
million at January 31, 1997. The $15.0 million increase in cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities was due primarily to cash generated from
operations ($158.6 million) and cash proceeds from the issuance of shares
through employee stock option and stock purchase programs ($80.1 million). This
increase was partially offset by cash used to repurchase shares of the Company's
common stock ($174.9 million), to acquire complementary software technologies
and businesses ($19.8 million), to purchase computer equipment, furniture, and
leasehold improvements ($15.0 million), and to pay dividends on the Company's
common stock ($11.3 million).

  During fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, the Company repurchased and retired
a total of 2,332,500, 1,659,500, and 2,671,000 shares of its common stock at
average repurchase prices of $38.39, $32.44, and $40.43, respectively, pursuant
to an ongoing and systematic repurchase plan ("Systematic Plan") approved by the
Company's Board of Directors to reduce the dilutive effect of common shares to
be issued under the Company's employee stock plans. In December 1997, the Board
of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 4 million shares under the
Systematic Plan.

  In August 1996, the Company announced another stock repurchase program under
which the Company may purchase up to 5 million shares of common stock in open
market transactions as market and business conditions warrant--the "Supplemental
Plan." In December 1997, the Board authorized the purchase of an additional 5
million shares under the Supplemental Plan. The Company may also utilize equity
options as part of the Supplemental Plan.

  In connection with the Supplemental Plan, the Company sold put warrants to an
independent third party in September 1996 and purchased call options from the
same independent third party. The premiums received with respect to the equity
options equaled the premiums paid. Consequently, there was no exchange of cash.
The Company exercised the call options, repurchasing 2,000,000 shares of its
common stock during the 
<PAGE>
 
third quarter of fiscal year 1998 for $51 million. The put warrants expired
unexercised in September 1997 and were reclassified from put warrants to
stockholders' equity during the third quarter of fiscal year 1998. For
additional information, see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. In
addition to the exercise of the call options in fiscal year 1998, the Company
repurchased an additional 1,000,000 shares in the open market at an average per
share repurchase price of $34.37. During fiscal year 1997, the Company
repurchased 557,500 shares at an average per share repurchase price of $24.09
subject to the Supplemental Plan.

  In December 1997, the Company sold put warrants to an independent third party
that entitle the holder of the warrants to sell 1.5 million shares of common
stock to the Company at $38.12 per share. Additionally, the Company purchased
call options from the same independent third party that entitle the Company to
buy 1 million shares at $39.88 per share. The premiums received with respect to
the equity options totaled $4.5 million and equaled the premiums paid.
Consequently, there was no exchange of cash. The outstanding put warrants at
January 31, 1998, permitted a net share settlement at the Company's option. As a
result, the transaction did not result in a put warrant liability on the
consolidated balance sheet.

  The Company has an unsecured $40 million bank line of credit, of which $20
million is guaranteed, that may be used from time to time to facilitate short-
term cash flow. At January 31, 1998, there were no borrowings outstanding under
this credit agreement, which expires in January 1999.

  The Company's principal commitments at January 31, 1998, consisted of
obligations under operating leases for facilities. For additional information,
see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.

  Longer-term cash requirements, other than normal operating expenses, are
anticipated for development of new software products and enhancement of existing
products; financing anticipated growth; dividend payments; repurchases of the
Company's common stock; and the acquisition of businesses, software products, or
technologies complementary to the Company's business. The Company believes that
its existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, available line of
credit, and cash generated from operations will be sufficient to satisfy its
currently anticipated cash requirements.
<PAGE>
 
Consolidated Statement of Income
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                                                               -----------------------------------
(In thousands, except per share data)                                                          1998           1997            1996 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<S>                                                                                     <C>             <C>            <C>
Revenues                                                                                 $   632,358      $ 509,630        $ 546,884
Direct commissions                                                                            15,232         12,937           12,717

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net revenues                                                                                 617,126        496,693          534,167
Costs and expenses:
 Cost of revenues                                                                             70,858         64,217           66,812
 Marketing and sales                                                                         237,107        199,939          183,550
 Research and development                                                                    122,432         93,702           78,678
 General and administrative                                                                   83,287         74,280           76,100
 Nonrecurring charges                                                                         58,087          4,738               --

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Total costs and expenses                                                                   571,771        436,876          405,140

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Income from operations                                                                        45,355         59,817          129,027
Interest and other income, net                                                                 9,644          6,695            9,253

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Income before income taxes                                                                    54,999         66,512          138,280
Provision for income taxes                                                                    39,635         24,941           50,492

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net income                                                                               $    15,364      $  41,571        $  87,788

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basic net income per share                                                               $      0.33      $    0.91        $    1.86

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Diluted net income per share                                                             $      0.31      $    0.88        $    1.76

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shares used in computing basic net income per share                                           46,760         45,540           47,090

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Shares used in computing diluted net income per share                                         49,860         47,190           49,800

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 
See accompanying notes.

<PAGE>
 
Consolidated Balance Sheet

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                 January 31,
                                                                                                                 -----------
(In thousands)                                                                                               1998          1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                                     <C>            <C> 
Assets                                                                                                                  
Current assets:                                                                                                         
 Cash and cash equivalents                                                                                $  96,089     $  64,814
 Marketable securities                                                                                      100,399       117,971
 Accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts of $7,136 ($6,635 in 1997)                      60,856        68,577
 Inventories                                                                                                  7,351         7,340
 Deferred income taxes                                                                                       27,577        22,759
 Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                                                   15,430        16,210
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total current assets                                                                                      307,702       297,671
Marketable securities, including a restricted balance of $18,000 ($28,000 in 1997)                          104,831       103,523
Computer equipment, furniture, and leasehold improvements:                                                              
 Computer equipment and furniture                                                                           117,434       103,903
 Leasehold improvements                                                                                      20,505        17,818
 Accumulated depreciation                                                                                   (98,800)      (77,671)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
  Net computer equipment, furniture, and leasehold improvements                                              39,139        44,050
Purchased technologies and capitalized software, net of                                                                 
 accumulated amortization                                                                                               
 of $31,400 ($18,700 in 1997)                                                                                31,553        15,916
Goodwill                                                                                                     16,995         6,470
Deferred income taxes                                                                                        13,782        12,857
Other assets                                                                                                 19,681        11,746
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                                                                                          $ 533,683     $ 492,233
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Liabilities and stockholders' equity                                                                                    
Current liabilities:                                                                                                    
    Accounts payable                                                                                      $  26,417     $  24,557
    Accrued compensation                                                                                     34,962        18,099
    Accrued income taxes                                                                                     76,465        75,061
    Deferred revenues                                                                                        18,934         3,141
    Other accrued liabilities                                                                                42,709        29,313
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total current liabilities                                                                              199,487       150,171
Deferred income taxes                                                                                           481         2,974
Litigation accrual                                                                                           29,328        29,328
Other liabilities                                                                                             1,255         1,646
Commitments and contingencies                                                                                           
Put warrants                                                                                                     --        64,500
Stockholders' equity:                                                                                                   
   Common stock, $0.01 par value; 100,000 shares authorized,                                                              
    45,465 issued and                                                                                                     
     outstanding (45,108 in 1997)                                                                           299,315       147,091
    Retained earnings                                                                                        20,472       106,587
    Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                 (16,655)      (10,064)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total stockholders' equity                                                                             303,132       243,614
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                          $ 533,683     $ 492,233
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 
   
  See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                           Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                                                          -------------------------------
(In thousands)                                                                            1998          1997           1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                 <C>             <C>             <C> 
Operating activities                                                    
Net income                                                                          $    15,364      $  41,571        $  87,788
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by             
  operating activities:                                                  
    Depreciation and amortization                                                        43,854         34,833           25,247
    Charge for acquired in-process research and development                              58,087          4,738               --
    Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of business            
      combinations:                                                         
       Accounts receivable                                                                8,829         25,365           (7,579)
       Inventories                                                                          534          2,345           (3,850)
       Deferred income taxes                                                            (10,947)          (785)          (4,567)
       Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                          1,501            890           (6,443)
       Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                          40,125         (4,318)           3,721
       Accrued income taxes                                                               1,265          9,544           12,315
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                                               158,612        114,183          106,632
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Investing activities                                                    
Purchases of available-for-sale marketable securities                                (1,102,015)      (683,550)        (224,655)
Maturities of available-for-sale marketable securities                                1,126,174        604,727          141,893
Purchase of computer equipment, furniture, and leasehold improvements                   (15,000)       (17,409)         (16,306)
Business combinations, net of cash acquired                                              (5,766)        (9,908)          (7,194)
Purchases of software technologies and capitalization of software costs                 (19,833)          (995)          (1,409)
Other                                                                                    (4,759)       (16,698)           8,042
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used by investing activities                                                   (21,199)      (123,833)         (99,629)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financing activities                                                     
Proceeds from issuance of common stock                                                   80,059         23,307           46,424
Repurchase of common stock                                                             (174,907)       (67,269)        (107,976)
Dividends paid                                                                          (11,290)       (10,879)         (11,184)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash used in financing activities                                                  (106,138)       (54,841)         (72,736)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                     31,275        (64,491)         (65,733)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                                           64,814        129,305          195,038
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                            $    96,089      $  64,814        $ 129,305
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Supplemental disclosure of noncash investing and financing activities:                                                             
Common stock issued in connection with the acquisition of Softdesk                  $    92,021      $      --        $      --
 
 </TABLE> 
  See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>
 
  Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
  <TABLE> 
  <CAPTION> 
                                                                                  Three-year period ended January 31, 1998
                                                                                  ----------------------------------------
                                                                                                            Foreign
                                                                                                            currency      Total
                                                                        Common stock          Retained    translation  stockholders'
  (In thousands)                                                    Shares      Amount       earnings     adjustment     equity
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                              <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>               <C> 
Balances, January 31, 1995                                         47,241    $100,870       $215,064      $  7,550       $323,484

Common shares issued under stock option and                                                                           
  stock purchase plans                                              1,781      35,712                                      35,712
Tax effect of stock options                                                    10,712                                      10,712
Net income                                                                                    87,788                       87,788
Dividends paid                                                                               (11,184)                     (11,184)
Repurchase of common shares                                        (2,671)     (6,529)      (101,447)                    (107,976)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                      2,904          2,904
Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax                                    888                          888
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances, January 31, 1996                                         46,351     140,765        191,109        10,454        342,328

Common shares issued under stock option and                                                                           
  stock purchase plans                                                974      20,729                                      20,729
Tax effect of stock options                                                     2,578                                       2,578
Reclassification of put warrants                                               (9,870)       (54,630)                     (64,500)
Net income                                                                                    41,571                       41,571
Dividends paid                                                                               (10,879)                     (10,879)
Repurchase of common shares                                        (2,217)     (7,111)       (60,158)                     (67,269)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                    (20,518)       (20,518)
Unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of tax                                  (426)                        (426)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances, January 31, 1997                                         45,108     147,091        106,587       (10,064)       243,614

Common shares issued under stock option and                                                                           
  stock purchase plans                                              2,790      63,829                                      63,829
Tax effect of stock options                                                    16,230                                      16,230
Reclassification of put warrants                                                9,870         54,630                       64,500
Shares issued in connection with business combination               2,900      92,021                                      92,021
Net income                                                                                    15,364                       15,364
Dividends paid                                                                               (11,290)                     (11,290)
Repurchase of common shares                                        (5,333)    (29,726)      (145,181)                    (174,907)
Foreign currency translation adjustment                                                                     (6,591)        (6,591)
Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities, net of tax                                    362                          362
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances, January 31, 1998                                         45,465    $299,315       $ 20,472      $(16,655)      $303,132
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See accompanying notes.
<PAGE>
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements


               Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operations

  Autodesk, Inc. ("Autodesk" or the "Company"), is a leader in the development
and marketing of design and drafting software and multimedia tools, primarily
for the business and professional environment. Autodesk's flagship product,
AutoCAD, is one of the world's leading computer-aided design ("CAD") tools, with
an installed base of 1.9 million seats worldwide.

Principles of consolidation

  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have
been eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1996 and 1997
consolidated financial statements to conform to the 1998 presentation.

  The asset and liability accounts of foreign subsidiaries are translated from
their respective functional currencies at the rates in effect at the balance
sheet date, and revenue and expense accounts are translated at weighted average
rates during the period. Foreign currency translation adjustments are reflected
as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Gains (losses) resulting from
foreign currency transactions, which are included in interest and other income,
were ($68,000), ($197,000), and $554,000 in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively.

Business combinations

  On March 31, 1997, the Company issued approximately 2.9 million shares of its
common stock for all outstanding shares of Softdesk, Inc. ("Softdesk"), a
leading supplier of AutoCAD-based application software for the architecture,
engineering, and construction market, and exchanged Autodesk options for
outstanding Softdesk options. Based upon the value of Autodesk stock and options
exchanged, the transaction, including transaction costs, was valued at
approximately $94 million. This transaction has been accounted for using the
purchase method. To assist in the allocation of the purchase price, an
independent valuation of Softdesk was completed. Approximately $55.1 million of
the Softdesk purchase price represented the value of in-process research and
development that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no
alternative future use, and as such, was charged to operations in the first
quarter of fiscal year 1998. The remaining purchase price was allocated
primarily to assets acquired, developed technology, and other intangibles.
Specifically, costs of $14,300,000 and $6,700,000 were allocated to goodwill and
other intangibles and are being amortized over five and four years,
respectively. The operating results of Softdesk, which have not been material in
relation to those of the Company, have been included in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements since the date of acquisition. In the first
quarter of fiscal year 1998, the Company also acquired certain assets of and
licensed technology from 3D/Eye for $5.8 million. Of the total cost, $3.0
million represented the value of in-process research and development that had
not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use and
was charged to operations.

  During fiscal year 1997 the Company acquired certain businesses for an
aggregate of $9.9 million. Included in these acquisitions were the purchases of
assets from Creative Imaging Technologies, Inc. ("CIT"), CadZooks, Inc., Argus
Technologies, Inc. ("Argus"), as well as the outstanding stock of Teleos
Research ("Teleos"). Approximately $3.2 million of the Teleos purchase price and
$1.5 million of the Argus purchase price represented the value of in-process
research and development that had not yet reached technological feasibility and
had no alternative future use. These amounts were charged to operations during
fiscal year 1997 and classified as nonrecurring charges in the accompanying
statement of income. In fiscal year 1996, the Company acquired certain assets of
Automated Methods (Pty) Ltd. and made final payments to the former stockholders
of Ithaca Software, which was acquired by the Company in August 1993, based on
revenues as specified in the acquisition agreement. Cash payments in fiscal year
1996 associated with these transactions totaled approximately $7.2 million. All
of these acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting
with the 
<PAGE>
 
purchase price being principally allocated to purchased technologies and
capitalized software, intangible assets, and for the Teleos and Argus
acquisitions, in-process research and development. The Company is amortizing
these intangible assets on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives
of the assets. The operating results of the acquired businesses, which have not
been material in relation to those of the Company, have been included in the
accompanying consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of
acquisition. Additional consideration may also be payable to the former
stockholders of CIT, Argus, Automated Methods, and Teleos based on product
milestones and operating results, which are expected to be allocated to
intangible assets and amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining
useful lives of the assets.

Use of estimates

  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

Foreign currency translation

  The Company hedges a portion of its exposure on certain receivables and
payables denominated in foreign currencies using forward foreign exchange
contracts in European and Asian foreign currencies. Gains and losses associated
with exchange rate fluctuations on forward foreign exchange contracts are
recorded currently in interest and other income and offset corresponding gains
and losses on the foreign currency assets being hedged. The costs of forward
foreign exchange contracts are amortized on a straight-line basis over the life
of the contract as interest and other income.

Cash and cash equivalents

  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with insignificant
interest rate risk and original maturities of three months or less to be cash
equivalents. Cash equivalents are recorded at cost, which approximates fair
value.

Marketable securities

  Marketable securities, consisting principally of high-quality municipal bonds,
tax-advantaged money market instruments, and US treasury notes, are stated at
fair value. Marketable securities maturing within one year that are not
restricted are classified as current assets.

  The Company determines the appropriate classification of its marketable
securities at the time of purchase and reevaluates such classification as of
each balance sheet date. The Company has classified all of its marketable
securities as available-for-sale and carries such securities at fair value, with
unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders' equity until
disposition.

Concentration of credit risk

  The Company places its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities with
financial institutions with high credit standing and, by policy, limits the
amounts invested with any one institution, type of security, and issuer.
Autodesk's accounts receivable are derived from software sales to a large number
of resellers and distributors in the Americas, Europe, and Asia Pacific. The
Company performs ongoing evaluations of its customers' financial condition and
limits the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary, but generally
requires no collateral.

Inventories

  Inventories, consisting principally of disks, compact disks (CD-ROMs), and
technical manuals, are stated at the lower of cost (determined on the first-in,
first-out method) or market.

Computer equipment, furniture, and leasehold improvements

  Computer equipment, furniture, and leasehold improvements are stated at cost.
Computer equipment and furniture are depreciated using the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from two to five
years. 
<PAGE>
 
Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter
of the estimated useful life or the lease term. Depreciation expense was
$22,876,000, $21,252,000, and $13,482,000 in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively.

Purchased technologies and capitalized software

  Costs incurred in the initial design phase of software development are
expensed as incurred. Once the point of technological feasibility is reached,
production costs (programming and testing) are capitalized. Certain acquired
software-technology rights are also capitalized. Capitalized software costs are
amortized ratably as revenues are recognized, but not less than on a straight-
line basis over two- to seven-year periods. Amortization expense was
$12,668,000, $9,563,000, and $11,765,000 in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively. The actual lives of the Company's purchased technologies or
capitalized software may differ from the Company's estimates, and such
differences could cause carrying amounts of these assets to be reduced
materially.

Other assets and goodwill

  Amortization of purchased intangibles and goodwill is provided on a straight-
line basis over the respective useful lives of the assets, which range from
three to ten years. Accumulated amortization was $22,556,000 and $14,293,000 in
fiscal years 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company evaluates the
realizability and the related periods of amortization of these assets on a
regular basis. Amortization expense was $8,310,000 and  $4,018,000 in fiscal
years 1998 and 1997, respectively. (The Company did not incur amortization
expense in fiscal year 1996.)

Employee stock compensation

  The Company accounts for its employee stock plans under the intrinsic-value-
based method under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees."

Revenue recognition

  Autodesk's revenue recognition policy is in compliance with the provisions of
the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position
91-1, "Software Revenue Recognition" ("SOP 91-1"). Revenue is recognized at the
time of shipment, provided that no significant vendor obligations exist and
collection of the resulting receivable is deemed probable. A portion of revenues
related to certain customer consulting and training obligations is deferred,
while costs associated with certain postsale customer obligations are accrued.

  Autodesk establishes allowances for product returns, including allowances for
stock balancing and product rotation, based on estimated future returns of
product and after taking into consideration channel inventory levels at its
resellers, the timing of new product introductions, and other factors. These
allowances are recorded as direct reductions of accounts receivable. While the
Company maintains strict measures to monitor channel inventories and to provide
appropriate allowances, actual product returns may differ from the Company's
estimates, and such differences could be material to the consolidated financial
statements.

Advertising

  Advertising costs are expensed the first time the advertising takes place.
Total advertising expenses incurred during fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996
were $12,194,000, $10,830,000, and $8,489,000, respectively.

Royalties

  The Company licenses software used to develop components of AutoCAD,
Mechanical Desktop(R), 3D Studio MAX(R), and certain other software products.
Royalties are payable to developers of the software at various rates and amounts
generally based on unit sales or revenues. Royalty expense was $7,640,000,
$8,000,000, and $6,102,000 in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.
Such costs are included as a component of cost of revenues.

Net income per share

  The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 128,
"Earnings Per Share" ("SFAS 128") in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1998.
SFAS 128 requires companies to present both basic net income per share and
diluted 
<PAGE>
 
net income per share. Basic net income per share excludes dilutive common stock
equivalents and is calculated as net income divided by the weighted average 
number of common shares outstanding. Diluted net income per share is computed
using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive
common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. A reconciliation of the
numerators and denominators used in the basic and diluted net income per share
amounts follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        Fiscal Year Ending January 31,
                                                                        ------------------------------
(In thousands)                                                              1998      1997      1996
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>       <C>       <C>
Numerator:
  Numerator for basic and diluted net income per share--net income         $15,364   $41,571   $87,788
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Denominator:
  Denominator for basic net income per share--weighted average shares       46,760    45,540    47,090
  Effect of dilutive common stock options                                    3,100     1,650     2,710
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Denominator for diluted net income per share                                49,860    47,190    49,800
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  The Company has restated all prior year amounts to comply with this standard.
See Note 8 to see related quarterly financial data amounts, as restated.

Recently issued accounting standards

  In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," which
establishes standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive income and its
components in a full set of general-purpose financial statements and is required
to be adopted by the Company beginning in its fiscal year 1999. Additionally,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" ("SFAS 131"), which establishes standards for the way
public business enterprises report information in annual statements and interim
financial reports regarding operating segments, products and services,
geographic areas, and major customers. SFAS 131 will first be reflected in the
Company's fiscal year 1999 Annual Report and will apply to both annual and
interim financial reporting subsequent to this date. The Company is currently
evaluating the impact of SFAS 130 and SFAS 131 on its financial disclosures.

  In October 1997, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition"
("SOP 97-2"), which supersedes SOP 91-1. SOP 97-2 will be effective beginning in
fiscal year 1999. In March 1998, the AICPA issued Statement of Position 98-4
("SOP 98-4"), which amends certain provisions of SOP 97-2. The Company believes
it is in compliance with the provisions of SOP 97-2 as amended by SOP 98-4.
However, detailed implementation guidelines for this standard have not been
issued. Once issued, such guidance could lead to unanticipated changes in the
Company's current revenue recognition practices, and such changes could be
material to the Company's results of operations.

  In March 1998, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement
of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or
Obtained for Internal Use." This standard requires companies to capitalize
qualifying computer software costs which are incurred during the application
development stage and amortize them over the software's estimated useful life.
The Company is required to adopt this standard in fiscal year 2000 and is
currently evaluating the impact that its adoption will have on the consolidated
financial position and results of operations of the Company.
<PAGE>
 
                         Note 2. Financial Instruments
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fair values of financial instruments
  Estimated fair values of financial instruments are based on quoted market
prices. The carrying amounts and fair value of the Company's financial
instruments are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         January 31, 1998        January 31, 1997
                                         ----------------        ----------------
                                        Carrying      Fair      Carrying      Fair
(In thousands)                           amount       value      amount       value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
Cash and cash equivalents               $ 96,089    $ 96,089    $ 64,814    $ 64,814
Marketable securities                    205,230     205,230     221,494     221,494
Forward foreign currency contracts          (124)       (124)       (458)       (458)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Foreign currency contracts

  The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments in the form of forward
foreign exchange contracts only for the purpose of hedging foreign currency
market exposures of underlying assets, liabilities, and other obligations which
exist as a part of its ongoing business operations. The Company, as a matter of
policy, does not engage in trading or speculative transactions. In general,
instruments used as hedges must be effective at reducing the foreign currency
risk associated with the underlying transaction being hedged and must be
designated as a hedge at the inception of the contract. Substantially all
forward foreign currency contracts entered into by the Company have maturities
of 60 days or less. The Company uses the forward contracts only as hedges of
existing transactions. Amounts receivable and payable on forward foreign
exchange contracts are recorded as other current assets and other accrued
liabilities, respectively. For these contracts, mark-to-market gains and losses
are recognized as other income or expense in the current period, generally
consistent with the period in which the gain or loss of the underlying
transaction is recognized. Cash flows associated with derivative transactions
are classified in the statement of cash flows in a manner consistent with those
of the transactions being hedged. The notional amounts of foreign currency
contracts were $38.8 million and $35.7 million at January 31, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and were predominantly to buy Swiss francs. While the contract or
notional amount is often used to express the volume of foreign exchange
contracts, the amounts potentially subject to credit risk are generally limited
to the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the
agreements exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.
<PAGE>
 
Marketable securities
  Marketable securities include the following available-for-sale securities at
  January 31, 1998 and 1997:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                January 31, 1998
                                                                ----------------
(In thousands)                    Cost       Gross unrealized gains   Gross unrealized losses    Estimated fair value
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>        <C>                      <C>                        <C>
Short-term:
 Municipal bonds                $ 24,383                     $ --                     $ (22)               $ 24,361
 Treasury bills                    9,994                        2                        --                   9,996
 Preferred stock                   2,000                       --                        --                   2,000
 Money market deposits            64,042                       --                        --                  64,042
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                 100,419                        2                       (22)                100,399
Long-term:
 Municipal bonds                  85,911                      935                        --                  86,846
 US Treasury bills                17,987                       --                        (2)                 17,985
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                 103,898                      935                        (2)                104,831
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                $204,317                     $937                     $ (24)               $205,230
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                         January 31, 1997
                                                                         ----------------
(In thousands)                    Cost     Gross unrealized gains     Gross unrealized losses     Estimated fair value
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>        <C>                      <C>                        <C>
Short-term:
 Municipal bonds                $ 70,325                     $ 43                     $  --                $ 70,368
 Preferred Stock                   2,000                       --                        --                   2,000
 Time deposits                    45,603                       --                        --                  45,603
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                 117,928                       43                        --                 117,971
Long-term:
 Municipal bonds                  72,565                       --                       (74)                 72,491
 US Treasury notes                28,592                       --                      (592)                 28,000
 Preferred stock and other         3,022                       10                        --                   3,032
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                 104,179                       10                      (666)                103,523
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                $222,107                     $ 53                     $(666)               $221,494
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  Long-term US Treasury bills included a restricted balance of $18.0 million at
January 31, 1998, and $28.0 million at January 31, 1997 (see Note 4). The
contractual maturities of Autodesk's short-term marketable securities at January
31, 1998, were one year or less while the Company's long-term marketable
securities had contractual maturities as follows: $59.6 million between one and
two years; $13.7 million maturing in three years; $9.6 million maturing in four
to five years; and $21.9 million beyond five years. Expected maturities may
differ from contractual maturities because the issuers of the securities may
have the right to prepay or call obligations without prepayment penalties.
Realized gains and losses on sales of available-for-sale securities were
immaterial in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996. The cost of securities sold is
based on the specific identification method.
<PAGE>
 
                             Note 3. Income Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The provision for income taxes consists of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                  Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                                                                  -------------------------------
(In thousands)                                                                                       1998       1997       1996
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                                  <C>        <C>        <C>
Federal:
  Current                                                                                           $31,749     $5,546    $26,711
  Deferred                                                                                           (7,978)     1,133     (3,392)
State:
  Current                                                                                             5,594      4,796      8,779
  Deferred                                                                                           (1,398)    (1,148)      (856)
Foreign:
  Current                                                                                            14,083     15,503     19,569
  Deferred                                                                                           (2,415)      (889)      (319)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                    $39,635    $24,941    $50,492
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>
  The principal reasons that the aggregate income tax provisions differ from the
US statutory rate of 35 percent are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                     Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                                                                                     -----------------------------
(In thousands)                                                                                        1998       1997       1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Income tax provision at statutory rate                                                              $19,250    $23,279    $48,398
Foreign income taxed at rates different from the US statutory rate                                   (1,005)    (1,644)    (7,863)
State income taxes, net of federal benefit                                                            2,727      2,371      8,616
Tax-exempt interest                                                                                  (2,031)    (1,348)    (1,668)
Acquired in-process research and development                                                         19,285      1,130         --
Other                                                                                                 1,409      1,153      3,009
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                                                                                    $39,635    $24,941    $50,492
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
  Significant sources of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
                                                                                                                January 31,
                                                                                                                -----------
(In thousands)                                                                                                1998       1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Accrued state income taxes                                                                                 $ 5,667    $ 5,562
Accrued legal judgment, including accrued interest                                                          13,863     13,822
Reserves for product returns and bad debts                                                                   9,728      7,864
Accrued compensation and benefits                                                                            3,809      2,950
Purchased technology and capitalized software                                                               11,079      6,270
Unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries                                                                 (6,018)    (6,018)
Other, net                                                                                                   2,750      2,192
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
  Net deferred tax assets                                                                                  $40,878    $32,642
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
 
  The tax benefit associated with dispositions from employee stock plans reduced
taxes currently payable for fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996 by $16,230,000,
$2,578,000, and $10,712,000, respectively. No provision has been made for
federal income taxes on unremitted earnings of certain of the Company's foreign
subsidiaries (cumulative $159 million at January 31, 1998) since the Company
plans to reinvest all such earnings for the foreseeable future. At January 31,
1998, the unrecognized deferred tax liability for these earnings was
approximately $44.0 million. Foreign pretax income was $55.1 million, $45.0
million, and $64.4 million in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

  The Company's United States income tax returns for fiscal years ended January
31, 1992 through 1996, are under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. On
August 27, 1997, the Internal Revenue Service issued a Notice of Deficiency
proposing increases to the amount of the Company's United States income taxes
for fiscal years 1992 and 1993. On November 25, 1997, the Company filed a
petition with the United States Tax Court to contest these alleged tax
deficiencies. Management believes that adequate amounts have been provided for
any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations.

  Cash payments for income taxes were approximately $33,272,000, $13,605,000,
and $32,032,000 for fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

                           Note 4. Litigation Accrual
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  In December 1994, the Company recorded a $25.5 million litigation charge as
the result of a judgment against the Company on a claim of trade secret
misappropriation brought by Vermont Microsystems, Inc. ("VMI"). The Company
appealed that judgment and, upon remand to the Federal District Court, a reduced
judgment was entered against the Company in the amount of $14.2 million plus
interest. On February 23, 1998, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
reduced the judgment to $7.8 million. Because the case is still subject to
postjudgment motions and appeals, the Company has not reflected the reduction of
damages in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

  The Company was required by statute to post collateral approximating the
amount of the initial judgment plus accrued interest. In May 1997, the escrow
account was reduced to $17.3 million, with interest to accrue. At January 31,
1998, the Company's long-term marketable securities included a balance of $18.0
million which is restricted as to its use until final adjudication of this
matter.

                     Note 5. Commitments and Contingencies
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  The Company leases office space and equipment under noncancelable lease
agreements. The leases generally provide that the Company pay taxes, insurance,
and maintenance expenses related to the leased assets. Future minimum lease
payments for fiscal years ended January 31 are as follows: $19.2 million in
1999; $17.5 million in 2000; $13.3 million in 2001; $9.6 million in 2002; $13.2
million in 2003; and $17.8 million thereafter.

  Rent expense was $17,729,000, $17,358,000, and $16,992,000 in fiscal years
1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

  The Company has a line of credit permitting short-term, unsecured borrowings
of up to $40 million, which may be used from time to time to facilitate short-
term cash flow. There were no borrowings outstanding under this agreement at
January 31, 1998, which expires in January 1999.

  The Company is a party to various legal proceedings arising from the normal
course of business activities. In management's opinion, resolution of these
matters is not expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's
consolidated results of operations or its financial position. However, depending
on the amount and timing, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially
affect the Company's future results of operations or cash flows in a particular
period.
<PAGE>
 
                         Note 6. Employee Benefit Plans
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Stock option plans

  Under the Company's stock option plans, incentive and nonqualified stock
options may be granted to officers, employees, directors, and consultants to
purchase shares of the Company's common stock. Options vest over periods of one
to five years and generally have terms of up to ten years. The exercise price of
the stock options is determined by the Company's Board of Directors on the date
of grant and is at least equal to the fair market value of the stock on the
grant date.
     Stock option activity is as follows:
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                                                                        Weighted
                                                                                                                         average
                                                                                                                          price
(Shares in thousands)                              Number of shares                      Price per share                per share
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                         <C>        <C>                 <C>                    <C>
Options outstanding at January 31, 1995                       7,997             $ 12.56 -            $    38.25          $    21.97
  Granted                                                     2,546               35.25 -                 49.25               44.83
  Exercised                                                  (1,484)              12.56 -                 30.50               19.19
  Canceled                                                     (368)              13.38 -                 49.25               30.78
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options outstanding at January 31, 1996                       8,691               13.38 -                 49.25               28.75
  Granted                                                     5,271                0.01 -                 42.00               29.99
  Exercised                                                    (651)               0.01 -                 38.25               19.66
  Canceled                                                     (598)              16.25 -                 49.25               36.98
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options outstanding at January 31, 1997                      12,713               13.38 -                 49.25               28.11
  Granted                                                     3,411                0.01 -                 48.38               34.62
  Assumed via acquisitions                                      306                0.34 -                 36.40               23.72
  Exercised                                                  (2,304)               0.01 -                 49.25               23.15
  Canceled                                                     (908)              13.38 -                 49.25               33.22
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options outstanding at January 31, 1998                      13,218             $  1.86 -            $    49.25          $    30.20
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options exercisable at January 31, 1998                       5,174             $  1.86 -            $    49.25          $    28.83
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options available for grant at January 31, 1998                 918
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 
  The following table summarizes information about options outstanding at
  January 31, 1998.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION>                                                          Outstanding options
                                                                      weighted average
                                               Number of shares       contractual life    Weighted average
                                                 (in thousands)             (in years)     exercise price
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>                      <C>                <C> 
  Range of per share exercise prices
  $ 1.86  --  $ 23.00                                    1,647                   3.91              $16.78
  $23.13  --  $ 30.25                                    5,430                   5.54              $25.51
  $30.38  --  $ 49.25                                    6,141                   8.68              $37.94
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        13,218                   6.80              $30.20
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

<PAGE>
 
  The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and
exercisable at January 31, 1998.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
                                                                        Number of shares    Weighted average
                                                                         (in thousands)     exercise price
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                     <C>                <C> 
Range of per share exercise prices  
  $ 1.86  --  $ 23.00                                                            1,577              $ 16.58
  $23.13  --  $ 30.25                                                            2,034              $ 27.29
  $30.38  --  $ 49.25                                                            1,563              $ 43.18
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                 5,174              $ 28.83
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  These options will expire if not exercised at specific dates ranging from
February 1998 to January 2008. Prices for options exercised during the three-
year period ended January 31, 1998, range from $0.01 to $49.25.

  A total of 14.1 million shares of the Company's common stock have been
reserved for future issuance under existing stock option programs.

Employee stock purchase plan

  The Company has an employee stock purchase plan ("plan") for all employees
meeting certain eligibility criteria. Under the plan, eligible employees may
purchase shares of the Company's common stock, at their discretion up to 15
percent of their compensation subject to certain limitations, at not less than
85 percent of fair market value as defined in the plan. A total of 2,600,000
shares have been reserved for issuance under the plan. In fiscal years 1998,
1997, and 1996, shares totaling 490,000, 323,000, and 301,000, respectively,
were issued under the plan at average prices of $21.99, $24.56, and $24.01 per
share. At January 31, 1998, a total of 301,000 shares were available for future
issuance under the plan.

Pro forma information

  The Company has elected to follow APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees," in accounting for its employees' stock options because, as
discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS
No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," requires the use of option
valuation models that were not developed for use in valuing employee stock
options. Under APB No. 25, because the exercise price of the Company's employee
stock options equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of
grant, no compensation expense is recognized in the Company's financial
statements.

  Pro forma information regarding net income and net income per share is
required by SFAS No. 123. This information is required to be determined as if
the Company had accounted for its employee stock options (including shares
issued under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, collectively called "options")
granted subsequent to January 31, 1995, under the fair value method of that
statement. The fair value of options granted in 1998, 1997, and 1996 reported
below has been estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option
pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                 Employee stock options           Employee stock purchase plan
                                 ----------------------           ----------------------------
                              1998       1997          1996        1998        1997       1996
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>       <C>           <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>
Expected life (in years)       2.6        2.7          2.5       0.5        0.5        0.5
Risk-free interest rate        6.1%       6.1%         5.8%      5.4%       5.5%       5.8%
Volatility                     .52        .42          .40       .50        .45        .45
Dividend yield                 0.6%       0.8%         0.8%      0.6%       0.8%       0.8%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating
the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions, including the expected volatility of the stock price.
Because the Company's stock options have characteristics 
<PAGE>
 
significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes in the
subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in
the opinion of management, the existing models do not necessarily provide a
reliable single measure of the fair value of its options. The weighted average
estimated fair value of employee stock options granted during fiscal years 1998,
1997, and 1996 was $13.50, $8.34, and $12.76 per share, respectively. The
weighted average estimated fair value of shares granted under the Employee Stock
Purchase Plan during fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996 was $7.17, $8.01, and
$7.85, respectively.

  For purposes of pro forma disclosure, the estimated fair value of the options
is amortized to expense over the options' vesting period. The Company's pro
forma net income (loss) for fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996 was $(21,939,000),
$15,343,000, and $77,952,000, respectively. Pro forma basic net income (loss)
per share was $(0.47), $0.34, and $1.66 in fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996,
respectively. In fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, pro forma diluted net income
(loss) per share was $(0.47), $0.30, and $1.52, respectively.

  The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying SFAS No. 123 are not likely
to be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of future years.
Because SFAS No. 123 is applicable only to options granted subsequent to January
31, 1995, the pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until 1999.

Pretax savings plan

  The Company has a pretax savings plan covering nearly all US employees that
qualify under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Eligible employees
may contribute up to 15 percent of their pretax salary, subject to certain
limitations. The Company makes voluntary contributions and matches a portion of
employee contributions. Company contributions, which may be terminated at the
Company's discretion, were $4,103,000, $3,068,000, and $2,442,000 in fiscal
years 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

  The Company provides defined-contribution plans in certain foreign countries
where required by statute. The Company's funding policy for foreign defined-
contribution plans is consistent with the local requirements in each country.
Company contributions to these plans during fiscal year 1998 were $1,376,000.
Company contributions to these plans in fiscal years 1997 and 1996 were not
significant.

                          Note 7. Stockholders' Equity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Preferred stock

  The Company's Certificate of Incorporation authorizes 2 million shares of
preferred stock, none of which is issued or outstanding. The Board of Directors
has the authority to issue the preferred stock in one or more series and to fix
rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including dividends, and the
number of shares constituting any series or the designation of such series,
without any further vote or action by the stockholders.

Common stock repurchase program

  During fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 1996, the Company repurchased and retired
a total of 2,332,500, 1,659,500, and 2,671,000 shares of its common stock at
average repurchase prices of $38.39, $32.44, and $40.43, respectively, pursuant
to an ongoing and systematic repurchase plan ("Systematic Plan") approved by the
Company's Board of Directors to reduce the dilutive effect of common shares to
be issued under the Company's employee stock plans. In December 1997, the Board
of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 4 million shares under the
Systematic Plan.

  In August 1996, the Company announced another stock repurchase program under
which the Company may purchase up to 5 million shares of common stock in open
market transactions as market and business conditions warrant--the "Supplemental
Plan." In December 1997, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an
additional 5 million shares under the Supplemental Plan. The Company may also
utilize equity options as part of the Supplemental Plan. During fiscal years
1998 and 1997, the Company repurchased 1,000,000 and 557,500 shares in the open
market at average per share repurchase prices of $34.37 and $24.09,
respectively, and entered into the equity options described below.
<PAGE>
 
  In September 1996, the Company sold put warrants to an investment bank that
entitle the holder of the warrants to sell 3 million shares of common stock to
the Company at $21.50 per share. Additionally, the Company purchased call
options from the same independent third party that entitle the Company to buy 2
million shares of its common stock at $25.50 per share. The premiums received
with respect to the equity options totaled $8.1 million and equaled the premiums
paid. Consequently, there was no exchange of cash. The Company exercised the
call options, repurchasing 2,000,000 shares of its common stock during the third
quarter for $51 million. The put warrants expired unexercised in September 1997
and were reclassified from put warrants to stockholders' equity during the third
quarter of fiscal year 1998.

  In December 1997, the Company sold put warrants to an independent third party
that entitle the holder of the warrants to sell 1.5 million shares of common
stock to the Company at $38.12 per share. Additionally, the Company purchased
call options from the same independent third party that entitle the Company to
buy 1 million shares at $39.88 per share. The premiums received with respect to
the equity options totaled $4.5 million and equaled the premiums paid.
Consequently, there was no exchange of cash. The outstanding put warrants at
January 31, 1998, permitted a net share settlement at the Company's option. As a
result, the transaction did not result in a put warrant liability on the
consolidated balance sheet.

              Note 8. Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Summarized quarterly financial information for fiscal years 1998, 1997, and 
1996 is as follows:
                                                1st        2nd        3rd       4th      Fiscal
(In thousands, except per share data)       Quarter    Quarter    Quarter    Quarter      Year
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>
Fiscal year 1998
  Net revenues                             $118,984    $154,096   $162,195   $181,851   $617,126
  Gross margin                              102,943     135,371    144,683    163,271    546,268
  Income (loss) from operations             (53,796)     25,469     30,126     43,556     45,355
  Net income (loss)                         (52,745)     17,835     20,956     29,318     15,364
  Basic net income (loss) per share           (1.15)       0.37       0.44       0.64       0.33
  Diluted net income (loss) per share         (1.15)       0.34       0.41       0.60       0.31
Fiscal year 1997
  Net revenues                             $136,281    $128,745   $116,647   $115,020   $496,693
  Gross margin                              118,989     112,123    101,427     99,937    432,476
  Income from operations                     28,125      17,123      7,502      7,067     59,817
  Net income                                 19,060      10,645      5,873      5,993     41,571
  Basic net income per share                   0.41        0.23       0.13       0.13       0.91
  Diluted net income per share                 0.39        0.22       0.13       0.13       0.88
Fiscal year 1996
  Net revenues                             $138,658    $140,686   $128,537   $126,286   $534,167
  Gross margin                              121,373     123,324    112,419    110,239    467,355
  Income from operations                     38,408      38,897     28,046     23,676    129,027
  Net income                                 25,977      26,299     19,207     16,305     87,788
  Basic net income per share                   0.55        0.56       0.41       0.35       1.86
  Diluted net income per share                 0.51        0.52       0.38       0.34       1.76
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE> 

  Results for the first quarter of fiscal year 1998 included nonrecurring
charges of approximately $55.1 million and $3.0 million, respectively,
representing the value of in-process research and development that had not yet
reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use acquired in
the Softdesk and 3D/Eye transactions. These charges resulted in a reduction in
diluted net income per share of $1.25 in the first quarter of fiscal year 1998.
Results for the second and third fiscal quarters of fiscal year 1997 included
nonrecurring charges of $3.2 million and $1.5 million, respectively, related to
in-process research and development acquired in the Teleos and Argus
acquisitions that had not yet reached technological 
<PAGE>
 
feasibility and had no alternative future use. These charges resulted in an
$0.08 and $0.02 reduction in diluted net income per share in the second and
third quarters of fiscal year 1997, respectively.

                     Note 9. Information by Geographic Area
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Information regarding the Company's operations by geographic area at January
31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, and for the fiscal years then ended is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Fiscal year ended January 31,
                                          -----------------------------
(In thousands)                           1998         1997         1996
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues:
The Americas
  Customers in the United States      $ 266,921    $ 176,286    $ 195,272
  Customers in Asia Pacific              46,542       40,284       42,262
  Customers in Canada                    18,695       10,671       14,619
  Other exports                          18,014       13,420       11,103
  Intercompany revenues                  47,445       65,758       67,728
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                        397,617      306,419      330,984
Europe                                  208,340      189,082      211,480
Asia Pacific                             73,846       79,887       72,148
Consolidating eliminations              (47,445)     (65,758)     (67,728)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                      $ 632,358    $ 509,630    $ 546,884
Income (loss) from operations:
The Americas                          $ (11,816)   $  22,734    $  63,843
Europe                                   51,220       32,909       53,696
Asia Pacific                              5,951        4,174       11,488
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                      $  45,355    $  59,817    $ 129,027
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Identifiable assets:
The Americas                          $ 333,558    $ 329,171    $ 306,795
Europe                                  287,470      302,183      250,268
Asia Pacific                             72,472       72,543       73,426
Consolidating eliminations             (159,817)    (211,664)    (112,560)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
                                      $ 533,683    $ 492,233    $ 517,929
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  Intercompany revenues consist of royalty revenue payable by the Company's
subsidiaries under software license agreements with the US parent company. At
January 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, total foreign net equity was $247.2 million,
$161.2 million, and $133.2 million, respectively.
<PAGE>
 
Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors

The Board of Directors and Stockholders

Autodesk, Inc.

  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Autodesk,
Inc., as of January 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated statements
of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended January 31, 1998. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
Autodesk, Inc., at January 31, 1998 and 1997, and the consolidated results of
its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended January 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.





                                                  /s/ Ernst & Young LLP



  San Jose, California
  February 24, 1998
<PAGE>
 
Directors, Executive Officers, and

Officers 


Directors

Carol Bartz
Chairman of the Board and  Chief Executive Officer

Mark A. Bertelsen
Senior Partner, Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati, Attorneys-at-Law

Crawford W. Beveridge
Chief Executive Officer, Scottish Enterprise, an economic development company

J. Hallam Dawson
Chairman, IDI Associates, a private investment bank

Paul S. Otellini
Executive Vice President, General Manager, Intel Architecture Business Group

Mary Alice Taylor
Corporate Executive Vice President of Global Operations and Technology, CitiCorp

Morton L. Topfer
Vice Chairman, Dell Computer Corporation

Executive Officers

Carol Bartz
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

Eric Herr
President and Chief Operating Officer

Dr. Joseph Astroth
Vice President, GIS Market Group

Carl Bass
Vice President, Engineering and Chief Technical Officer

Steve Cakebread
Vice President
Chief Financial Officer

James D'Arezzo
Vice President, Corporate Marketing

Dominic Gallello
Vice President, Mechanical CAD Market Group

Stephen McMahon
Vice President, Human Resources  and Facilities

Tom Norring
Vice President, Asia Pacific

Michelle Pharr
Vice President, the Americas

Marcia Sterling
Vice President, Business Development, and General Counsel
<PAGE>
 
Godfrey Sullivan
Vice President, Personal Solutions Group

Michael Sutton
Vice President, Europe/Middle East/Africa

Officers 

William Kredel
Vice President and
Chief Information Officer

David Oppenheimer
Vice President, Finance

John Sanders
Vice President,
Worldwide Product Support

Michael Tabatabai
Vice President, Worldwide Operations

Christine Tsingos
Vice President and Treasurer

Eric Wagner
Vice President, Software Development
<PAGE>
 
Corporate Information

Market Information and Dividend Policy

Market Prices

  The Company's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the
symbol ADSK. The following table lists the high and low sales prices for each
quarter in the last three fiscal years:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             High        Low   
- ----------------------------------------------------------------   
<S>                                       <C>        <C>      
Fiscal year 1998  
First quarter                              $ 36-3/8    $ 28-1/4
Second quarter                             $ 42-7/8    $ 34-9/16
Third quarter                              $ 51-1/8    $ 30-1/2
Fourth quarter                             $ 42-1/8    $ 32-1/4
                                          
Fiscal year 1997                                              
First quarter                              $ 44-1/4    $ 29-3/4
Second quarter                             $ 42-3/4    $ 20-1/2
Third quarter                              $ 27-1/2    $ 18-1/2
Fourth quarter                             $ 35-3/8    $ 21
                                          
Fiscal year 1996                                              
First quarter                              $ 44        $ 33
Second quarter                             $ 50-1/4    $ 34
Third quarter                              $ 53        $ 33
Fourth quarter                             $ 39-1/2    $ 27-3/4 
</TABLE>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------

Dividends

  The Company paid quarterly dividends of $0.06 per share in fiscal years 1998,
1997, and 1996. The Company currently intends to continue paying regular cash
dividends on a quarterly basis.

Stockholders

  As of April 21, 1998, the approximate number of common stockholders of record
was 1,240.

Annual Meeting

  The Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held at 2:00 pm on June
25, 1998, at Embassy Suites Hotel, 101 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California.

Form 10-K

  A copy of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 1998 filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission may be obtained without charge by
sending a written request to Investor Relations, Autodesk, Inc., 111 McInnis
Parkway, San Rafael, CA 94903. Information about Autodesk and its business,
including the company's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, may be obtained from Autodesk's World Wide Web site at
WWW.AUTODESK.COM.

Corporate Headquarters
Autodesk, Inc.
111 McInnis Parkway
San Rafael, CA 94903
USA
<PAGE>
 
The Americas
Autodesk, Inc.
20400 Stevens Creek Boulevard
Cupertino, CA 95014-2217
USA

Asia Pacific
Autodesk, Inc.
20400 Stevens Creek Boulevard
Cupertino, CA 95014-2217
USA

Europe
Autodesk (Europe) SA
20, route de Pre-Bois
Case Postale 766
CH-1215 Geneva 15
Switzerland

Legal Counsel
Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati
650 Page Mill Road
Palo Alto, CA 94304
USA

Transfer Agent
Harris Trust & Savings Bank
c/o Shareholder Services
14th Floor
311 West Monroe Street
Chicago, IL 60606
USA

Independent Auditors
Ernst & Young LLP
55 Almaden Boulevard
San Jose, CA 95113
USA

For More Information

  For more information, please write Investor Relations, Autodesk, Inc., 111
McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA 94903, phone us at 415-507-5000, or visit our
World Wide Web sites at WWW.AUTODESK.COM and WWW.KTX.COM.

Autodesk, the Autodesk logo, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD Map, AutoSketch,
Kinetix, Mechanical Desktop, Picture This Home!, Planix, and 3D Studio MAX are
registered trademarks, and AutoCAD Architectural Desktop, AutoCAD Land 
Development, Autodesk MapGuide, Autodesk World, bringing information down to
earth, Character Studio, Design Your World, ObjectARX, and 3D Studio VIZ are
trademarks, of Autodesk, Inc., in the USA and/or other countries. Microsoft,
Windows, and Windows NT are registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. All
other brand names, product names, or trademarks belong to their respective
holders.

(C) Copyright 1998 Autodesk, Inc. All rights reserved.

Customer image credits: cover inset (left to right), Roy Larosa, Jaime Laga/New
Jersey Institute of Technology, School of Architecture, Doug King and Chuck
Wootten, Yuba Heat Transfer, Tulsa, OK, Department of Public Works, City of San
Rafael, CA, Unreal Pictures (created for Kinetix, a Division of Autodesk, Inc.),
and Suarez-Kuehne Architects, San Francisco, CA; p. 9 top, Little & Associates,
Charlotte, NC; p. 10 top, Jozef M. Nowobilski, Preferred Machine, Bedford Park,
IL; p. 13 top, Greg V. Hess, Strata Web Systems Ltd., Calgary, Alberta, Canada;
p. 14 bottom left, image courtesy of Xaos, Inc.; p. 14 bottom right, image
courtesy of Liquid Light Studios; p. 17 top, Charles Miller, Charles Miller &
Co., Fairburn, GA.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

 
                         SUBSIDIARIES OF AUTODESK INC.
                         -----------------------------


The Registrant owns 100% of the outstanding voting securities of the following
corporations, all of which are included in the Registrant's consolidated
financial statements:


                                                      Jurisdiction of
            Name                                      Incorporation
            ----                                      ---------------
     Autodesk (Europe) S.A.                           Switzerland
     Autodesk AB                                      Sweden
     Autodesk AG                                      Switzerland
     Autodesk Asia Pte. Ltd.                          Singapore
     Autodesk Australia Pty. Ltd.                     Australia
     Autodesk B.V.                                    Netherlands
     Autodesk Canada Inc.                             Canada
     Autodesk Development Africa (Pty) Ltd.           Republic of South Africa
     Autodesk Development B.V.                        Netherlands
     Autodesk Development Canada, Ltd.                Canada
     Autodesk Far East Ltd.                           Hong Kong
     Autodesk GesmbH                                  Austria
     Autodesk GmbH                                    Germany
     Autodesk International Ltd.                      Barbados
     Autodesk Ireland                                 Ireland
     Autodesk Korea Ltd.                              Korea
     Autodesk Ltd.                                    United Kingdom
     Autodesk Ltd. Japan                              Japan
     Autodesk Ltda                                    Brazil
     Autodesk R                                       Russia-C.I.S.
     Autodesk S.A.                                    Spain
     Autodesk S.A.R.L                                 France
     Autodesk S.p.A.                                  Italy
     Autodesk Software ltda.                          Portugal
     Autodesk spol. s.r.o                             Czechia
     Autodesk, Taiwan Ltd.                            Taiwan
     Softdesk, Inc                                    New Hampshire
     Softdesk International, Inc.                     New Hampshire
     DCA FSC, Inc                                     Virginia
     Image Systems Technology, Inc.                   New York
     Foresight Resources Corporation                  Missouri
     Teleos Research                                  California
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<FLAWED>
<TEXT>
WARNING: THE EDGAR SYSTEM ENCOUNTERED ERROR(S) WHILE PROCESSING THIS SCHEDULE.

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>

<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                               <C>               <C>               <C>               <C>                    <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                    12-MOS             12-MOS             12-MOS             12-MOS                 12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>              JAN-31-1998       JAN-31-1997       JAN-31-1996       JAN-31-1995            JAN-31-1994
<PERIOD-START>                 FEB-01-1997       FEB-01-1996       FEB-01-1995       FEB-01-1994            FEB-01-1993
<PERIOD-END>                   JAN-31-1998       JAN-31-1997       JAN-31-1996       JAN-31-1995            JAN-31-1994
<CASH>                              96,089                 0                 0                 0                      0
<SECURITIES>                       100,399                 0                 0                 0                      0
<RECEIVABLES>                       67,992                 0                 0                 0                      0
<ALLOWANCES>                         7,136                 0                 0                 0                      0
<INVENTORY>                          7,351                 0                 0                 0                      0
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                   307,702                 0                 0                 0                      0
<PP&E>                             137,939                 0                 0                 0                      0
<DEPRECIATION>                      98,800                 0                 0                 0                      0
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                     533,683                 0                 0                 0                      0
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>              199,487                 0                 0                 0                      0
<BONDS>                                  0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                    0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<PREFERRED>                              0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<COMMON>                           299,315                 0                 0                 0                      0
<OTHER-SE>                          20,472                 0                 0                 0                      0
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>       533,683                 0                 0                 0                      0
<SALES>                            617,126                 0                 0                 0                      0
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                   617,126                 0                 0                 0                      0
<CGS>                               70,858                 0                 0                 0                      0
<TOTAL-COSTS>                      497,212                 0                 0                 0                      0
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                         0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                     3,701                 0                 0                 0                      0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                     159                 0                 0                 0                      0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                     54,999                 0                 0                 0                      0
<INCOME-TAX>                        39,635                 0                 0                 0                      0
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                 15,364                 0                 0                 0                      0
<DISCONTINUED>                           0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                          0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<CHANGES>                                0                 0                 0                 0                      0
<NET-INCOME>                        15,364                 0                 0                 0                      0
<EPS-PRIMARY>                         0.33<F1>          0.91<F1><F2>      1.86<F1><F2>      1.20<F1><F2>           1.30<F1><F2>
<EPS-DILUTED>                         0.31              0.88<F2>          1.76<F2>          1.14<F2>               1.25<F2>
        
<FN>
<F1>  For purposes of this exhibit, primary means basic.
<F2>  Amounts have been restated to comply with the provisions of Statement of 
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings per Share."
</FN>

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
