-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: keymaster@town.hall.org
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFkwCgYEVQgBAQICAgADSwAwSAJBALeWW4xDV4i7+b6+UyPn5RtObb1cJ7VkACDq
 pKb9/DClgTKIm08lCfoilvi9Wl4SODbR1+1waHhiGmeZO8OdgLUCAwEAAQ==
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 EY2G3Sje7OvRHHXMNMjrdYEdSZIHyCHlMZKj3VOOKap9KA5+vwDyhqqAE1asJZbz
 OeNjmMMtquN6uN0bA1xDqw==

<IMS-DOCUMENT>0000912057-95-000843.txt : 19950602
<IMS-HEADER>0000912057-95-000843.hdr.sgml : 19950602
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-95-000843
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19941125
FILED AS OF DATE:		19950217
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ADOBE SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000796343
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	7372
		IRS NUMBER:				770019522
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-15175
		FILM NUMBER:		95513672

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 CHARLESTON RD
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043-1225
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4159614400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 7900
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94039-7900
</IMS-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                            -------------------------
                                    FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

/X/  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
     ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 25, 1994

                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                 FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _____ TO ____

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER:  33-6885

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                     California                            77-0019522
               (State or other jurisdiction of         (I.R.S. Employer
               incorporation or organization)          Identification No.)

       1585 Charleston Road, Mountain View, California      94043-1225
          (Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (415) 961-4400

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  Common Stock

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES      X  NO
                                              ----       ----
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K. [   ]

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affliates of the
registrant as of December 30, 1994 was $1,829,275,497.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's common stock as of December
30, 1994 was 61,488,252.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement dated February 28, 1995 to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Notice of Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on April 5, 1995 are incorporated by reference into Part
II.

<PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                      Page No.

                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business                                                         4

Item 2.   Properties                                                       19

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings                                                20

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders              21

                                     PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related
          Shareholder Matters                                              22

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data                                          23

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
          Condition and Results of Operations                              24

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                      37

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on
          Accounting and Financial Disclosure                              38

                                    PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant               39

Item 11.  Executive Compensation                                           41

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
          Management                                                       42

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                   43

                                     PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
          on Form 8-K                                                      44


                                        2

 <PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                   (CONTINUED)

                                                                      Page No.

Signatures                                                               53

Summary of Trademarks                                                    55

Financial Statements                                                     56

Financial Statement Schedule                                             96

Exhibits                                                                 98



                                        3

 <PAGE>

PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS


                               BUSINESS OVERVIEW


Adobe Systems (the "Company" or "Adobe"), established in 1982, is a California
corporation that creates computer software solutions to help people throughout
the world effectively communicate information and ideas. It first developed the
PostScript page description language, a powerful, high-level computer language
that communicates precise descriptions of computer-generated graphics, photos
and text to any output device with a PostScript interpreter. Over time, the
PostScript language has become an industry standard for printing electronic
documents. Concurrently, independent software vendors and Adobe used the power
and flexibility of the PostScript language to build a base of application
products that is generally recognized for facilitating the desktop publishing
revolution. More than 5,000 applications support PostScript language output.
These applications are available for every major computer operating system and
hardware configuration, from desktop PCs to mainframes.

Adobe delivers its products and technologies through two divisions: the System
Products Division (SPD), which develops technology for information distribution,
and the Application Products Division (APD), which develops packaged
applications for information authoring.

SPD focuses on the development, marketing, sales and support of system-level
software tools and technologies that are embedded within the branded products of
original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). The division is organized into five
product groups: prepress products, information products, display products,
imaging systems products and printer products.

APD provides three categories of software products: graphics and video, print
publishing and consumer products. Graphics and video include digital imaging and
video products, illustration products, type products and presentation products.
Print publishing products include page assembly products and some accessory
products. Consumer products are personal publishing and productivity software.

Adobe is now leveraging its leadership position in desktop publishing to pioneer
an industry transition to digital publishing. At the heart of this initiative is
technology for the representation of digital documents that are independent of
computer platform, application software and fonts. This technology is embodied
in the Adobe Acrobat family of document communication products introduced in
1993. Version 2.0, which includes a significant number of new features and
expanded capabilities, was introduced in 1994. In addition, Adobe offers an
expanding suite of software tools for authoring multimedia digital information.

Adobe develops, markets and supports its computer software products through
various channels, including distribution through the retail channel, value-added
resellers (VARs)



                                        4


<PAGE>

and direct OEM licenses. Additionally, Adobe supports its worldwide OEMs,
distributors and end-user customers through several international subsidiaries.
The European operations are headquartered in Edinburgh, with European offices in
Amersfoot, London, Milan, Munich, Paris and Stockholm. Offices in Tokyo and
Sydney service the Asian and Pacific Rim markets.

APD also markets products through the Image Club Graphics, Incorporated ("Image
Club") subsidiary, a developer and catalog marketer of content software. Image
Club provides original clip art, brand name and original display fonts, stock
photographic images plus a variety of third-party desktop publishing products.
It has a monthly catalog circulation of more than 600,000.

On August 31, 1994, Adobe completed its acquisition of Aldus Corporation
following approval by shareholders of both companies and the Federal Trade
Commission (FTC). The FTC approved the acquisition after Adobe agreed to the
condition that the rights to the Aldus FreeHand program revert to Altsys
Corporation in January 1995. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of
interests and qualified as a tax-free reorganization.




                                        5

 <PAGE>

                           SYSTEM PRODUCTS DIVISION


PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

Adobe develops, markets, licenses and supports its printer software, Acrobat
software, prepress software and controller and complementary technologies to
systems integrators, developers and OEMs of computers, printers, imagesetters
and film recorders for incorporation into their products. Core products and
technologies include PostScript, Adobe Acrobat, personal printing software, a
variety of prepress products, the Configurable PostScript Interpreter (CPSI) for
embedded control and host-based printing, the Display PostScript system, Adobe
typeface software, Adobe Type Manager software, application-specific integrated
circuits (ASICs) and other related technologies.

SPD is organized into five product groups: printer products, imaging systems
products, display products, prepress products and information products.

PRINTER PRODUCTS

PostScript is a page description language, a set of instructions typically
generated by a software application that describes the electronic appearance of
a page for a printer or output device containing a PostScript interpreter. The
description includes detailed information such as the placement of each type
character, line, curve or image. In 1990, the Company introduced PostScript
Level 2, which increases functionality in areas such as composite fonts, device-
independent color, data compression and improved fidelity between displays and
output devices.

Adobe also provides PostScript Fax technology to enable printers or other output
devices to receive high-quality standard fax documents on plain paper from any
fax machine. PostScript Fax printers can serve as remote printers and can both
send and receive documents created from any of the more than 20 million fax
machines and modems installed worldwide.

The Company offers a cooperative development program to license PostScript
software source-code interface modules and development and testing tools to
qualified OEMs. This enables them to develop product lines, shorten development
cycles, and add value to their products. During 1993 and 1994, the Company
expanded its cooperative development program to encompass more than a dozen of
its OEMs, each with one or more active development projects. Adobe has also
authorized certain third-party companies to produce products for Adobe's OEMs.

In October 1994, Adobe acquired LaserTools Corporation ("LaserTools") of
Emeryville, California, a provider of printing-related technologies for the PC
environment. In recent years, LaserTools had licensed technologies to Adobe,
including automatic printer language detection software. The acquisition added
complementary technology to Adobe's PostScript software and other areas of its
product line. LaserTools' retail products division was not a part of the
acquisition.


                                        6

 <PAGE>

IMAGING SYSTEMS PRODUCTS

The Configurable PostScript Interpreter is a fully functional PostScript
interpreter that resides on the host computer system rather than in a dedicated
controller integrated into an output device. The configuration flexibility of
CPSI allows OEMs and software developers to create and market a variety of
PostScript products independently of controller hardware development.

DISPLAY PRODUCTS

The Display PostScript Level 2 system is a standard printing and imaging model
for UNIX workstations. It provides application developers with a way to describe
pages the same way for the display and printer for faster development of
graphically sophisticated applications. It incorporates the same industry-
standard imaging model and language used in PostScript output devices into
products from vendors including Digital Equipment, IBM, Network Computing
Devices, NeXT, Silicon Graphics and Sun Microsystems.

PREPRESS PRODUCTS

PressWise for Macintosh is a program used to assemble multipage PostScript
language files into imposition forms for printing, folding and binding. It gives
prepress professionals control over page positioning, signature design and
custom printer's marks. PrePrint is a program for generating four-color
separations on the Macintosh. For the Macintosh and Windows platforms, TrapWise
performs professional-quality process color trapping on PostScript language
files, particularly for high-throughput production. Print Central is a
Macintosh-based print server and Color Central is an open prepress interface
(OPI) image server for Macintosh and Windows.

INFORMATION PRODUCTS

Acrobat is a family of software products that allows fully formatted, electronic
documents that may contain distinctive typefaces, color, graphics and
photographs, to be easily distributed, accessed and reused, regardless of the
hardware platform, operating system or application used to create the originals.
Receivers can view, search, navigate, print and store the documents on their
existing systems, enabling companies to easily create, manage and distribute
visually rich information.

Acrobat software describes documents in a single, universal format called the
Portable Document Format (PDF). Based on the PostScript language, PDF is a
device- and resolution-independent description of documents containing any
combination of text, graphics and still images, in documents of any size and
visual complexity. A PDF file describes the visual (printable) aspects of a
document, as well as elements such as annotations (notes), hypertext links,
"thumbnail" views of pages, and bookmarks.

Adobe Acrobat software enables accurate communication of digital content
(combined graphics/text today and multimedia "documents" in the future) across
multiplatform networks. Documents can be viewed, printed, annotated and sent on
to other users. Acrobat software supports interapplication communication
standards, such as OLE, DDE



                                        7


<PAGE>

and Apple events, to integrate with key applications, such as Lotus Notes.
Customers with specific needs can build on Acrobat software's open architecture
to create extended functionality or to further integrate Acrobat with other
systems or applications.

SALES AND MARKETING

The PostScript language and Acrobat software's PDF are open specifications
published by Adobe. Approximately 350 software companies have introduced or
announced application products that support the PostScript language. More than
5,000 application programs currently support the PostScript language on
platforms that include personal computers, minicomputers, UNIX workstations and
mainframes from all major manufacturers.

Adobe licenses its PostScript products to more than 50 computer and printer
manufacturers, which in turn distribute their products worldwide. The Company
derives a significant portion of its royalties from international sales of
printers and imagesetters by its OEM customers.

OEMs and VARs distribute Adobe products with hardware and software products in
various configurations designed to best meet specific end user needs. Adobe, to
a limited extent, also markets directly to the end user. In 1993, the Company
focused on the development of a separate graphic arts dealer channel of OEMs and
VARs to distribute its prepress product line, which includes Adobe PressWise,
Adobe PrePrint and Adobe TrapWise. In March 1994, the Company completed its
acquisition of Compumation, Incorporated, adding Print Central and Color Central
to the prepress product line.

The primary distribution channels for Adobe Acrobat software are expected to be
VARs, systems integrators, information integrators and the retail channel.

COMPETITION

The Adobe PostScript interpreter faces indirect competition from major computer
companies that have developed or may develop a competitive page description
language. However, to date those products use a proprietary printer control
language that provides less functionality and flexibility than the Adobe
PostScript interpreter. The Company believes that Hewlett-Packard's LaserJet
product family, with its proprietary PCL page description language, has the
largest installed base of any low-cost laser printer. Additionally, several
companies have produced their own implementations of the PostScript language,
and some have announced contracts with printer manufacturers, most of whom are
not currently licensing Adobe PostScript software products.

Adobe believes that the principal competitive factors for OEMs in selecting a
page description language interpreter are product capabilities, reliability,
support, engineering development assistance and price. The Company believes that
it competes very favorably in these areas. The Company also believes that no
other page description language interpreter provides equivalent functionality
together with the broad support of software developers.

With the Display PostScript system, the Company also competes with screen
imaging




                                        8


<PAGE>

software incorporated in other computer systems' architectures, such as
QuickDraw in the Macintosh, GDI in Windows, and GPI in OS/2. Each computer
platform has its own native screen imaging software. In the Macintosh, DOS and
Windows platforms, that technology is provided by the operating system vendor.
In the UNIX environment, Display PostScript has been licensed by the substantial
majority of UNIX hardware vendors and has become the de facto standard.

Prepress products face direct and indirect competition. Print Central 3.0.4 is a
Macintosh-based print server. It manages multiple clients and printers
simultaneously, and competes indirectly with AppleShare from Apple Computer and
directly with the non-Macintosh product Helios EtherShare. Color Central 2.1.1
is an OPI image server running on the Macintosh and Windows platforms. It
manages printing and images used in page makeup, and competes with Helios
EtherShare OPI and Archetype Intercep.

Electronic document communication, the market for Acrobat, is still in its
infancy. A number of competing products and technologies have been introduced,
including Common Ground from No Hands Software, Replica from Farallon and Envoy
from Novell. The Company believes that Acrobat is more functional than these
competitors, although no definitive leader has emerged. The Company believes
that it can leverage its expertise and market position to create a standard and
provide technology that allows the transfer of electronic documents across
various computer platforms.

TRAINING

For a fee, the Company provides training in the use of the PostScript language
and the Display PostScript System to software developers, OEMs and corporate
customers. The Company also has certified third-party training providers in the
United States, United Kingdom, France and Germany.


                                        9


<PAGE>

                        APPLICATION PRODUCTS DIVISION


PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

In application software, Adobe leverages the use of PostScript language-based
authoring tools for the creation of digital content. Adobe's digital type
business provides a principal raw material used to create documents, while its
graphics products are recognized by the industry for creating new markets and
setting the standard against which other products are measured. Adobe's vision
is to build application software with extensible architectures that enable
software developers to design software "plug-ins." These plug-ins will allow
users to go beyond their mission-critical tasks and obtain more vertical market
solutions.

APD is organized into three product units: graphics and video, print publishing
and consumer products. Within these units, Adobe develops, markets, licenses and
supports graphics and type products and application software, utility software
for graphics professionals, and software for the consumer market.

GRAPHICS AND VIDEO - DIGITAL IMAGING PRODUCTS

Adobe Photoshop software is essentially an electronic darkroom that provides
users with professional prepress, color correction, paint and special effects
editing tools for color and black-and-white photographs and illustrations.
Introduced in 1990, Adobe Photoshop has become the standard tool for the
prepress, publishing and graphic arts industries. The latest release, version
3.0, was introduced in 1994 for Macintosh, Power Macintosh and Windows
platforms. Adobe Photoshop 2.5.2 for the UNIX environment was also introduced in
1994.

GRAPHICS AND VIDEO - VIDEO PRODUCTS

Adobe Premiere software allows users to edit video, audio, animation, photos and
graphics to create high-quality QuickTime or Microsoft Video for Windows digital
movies and videotapes. With Adobe Premiere, users can produce movies for small-
or full-screen viewing, or export to tape. Adobe Premiere is available on the
Macintosh, Power Macintosh and Windows platforms.

After Effects is a digital post-production tool for compositing, motion graphics
and special effects. Its interface design, speed and versatility give users the
control, efficiency and quality output required in professional film, broadcast
and video environments. After Effects is available for the Macintosh.

GRAPHICS AND VIDEO - ILLUSTRATION PRODUCTS

Adobe Illustrator is the leading illustration and page design tool available for
the Macintosh. The program simplifies the creation, manipulation and refinement
of artwork with advanced features for editing, text handling, color support and
more. The latest release, version 5.5, was introduced in 1994 for the Macintosh
and Power Macintosh platforms.


                                       10


<PAGE>

Adobe also develops utility software products that complement other programs,
such as Adobe Illustrator, FreeHand and Deneba Canvas. Adobe Dimensions is a
software tool for the Macintosh that is used to create 3D objects. Adobe
Streamline is a tool for Macintosh and Windows platforms that converts black-
and-white or color bitmapped images into PostScript language artwork for use
with other programs.

IntelliDraw is a "smart" drawing program for Macintosh and Windows that helps
users create and refine commonly used graphics, such as schematics, maps,
organizational charts, diagrams, forms and space plans.

GRAPHICS AND VIDEO - TYPE PRODUCTS

Adobe markets the industry's largest family of digital type products, including
more than 2,000 typefaces in the Adobe Type Library. These typefaces are
marketed individually, in special collections and on CD-ROM.

Adobe Type Manager (ATM) is a software utility that eliminates jagged type on
the computer screen and printed page. It enables Macintosh and Windows users to
scale Type 1 fonts to any size and print them at the highest possible resolution
on the full range of Adobe PostScript and non-PostScript printers. ATM is sold
as an individual product and is also included with every Adobe Type 1 typeface
package, in many other Adobe products, and is available bundled with a variety
of third-party applications and printer products. It is available for Macintosh,
Power Macintosh and Windows platforms.

Adobe SuperATM is an enhanced version of ATM software that automatically creates
"substitute fonts" to simulate typefaces missing from a computer. SuperATM
enables users to view, edit and print text that has the same look and feel as
that of the original document, and is compatible with all leading software
applications. The program is available for the Macintosh.

Type On Call is a CD-ROM that contains more than 2,000 encrypted typefaces from
the Adobe Type Library. The CD contains Adobe Type Reunion and ATM software, 30
typefaces and access codes for two additional typeface packages from a
preselected list. Customers can call Adobe via a toll-free, 24-hour line to buy
access codes for additional typefaces. Type On Call is available for Macintosh
and Windows.

GRAPHICS AND VIDEO - PRESENTATION PRODUCTS

Persuasion is a desktop presentation program for producing or delivering
conceptual and data-intensive presentations. Users can automatically generate
output for 35mm color slides, overheads and on-screen presentations, with
speaker notes and audience handouts, from the information they gather and create
on the desktop. The current version, Persuasion 3.0 for the Macintosh platform,
began shipping in February 1994 and is also available for the Power Macintosh.
Persuasion 3.0 for Windows was released in September 1994.




                                       11


<PAGE>

PRINT PUBLISHING - PAGE ASSEMBLY PRODUCTS

PageMaker offers tools for each person in the publishing cycle who produces
professional-quality materials: graphic artists and designers; writers, editors
and typesetters; and production artists and prepress professionals. The program
sets up the computer screen as an electronic paste-up board and gives the user a
toolbox of design aids for electronic page composition, thereby reducing the
time and expense associated with traditional publishing techniques. PageMaker
allows the user to design, lay out and produce high-quality printed
communications such as newsletters, brochures, manuals, and other more complex
technical documents. PageMaker 5.0 shipped in June 1993 for the Windows
platform, July 1993 for the Macintosh and May 1994 for the Power Macintosh.

PRINT PUBLISHING - ACCESSORY PRODUCTS

Adobe Fetch is a digital cataloging program that organizes images, graphics,
publications, presentations, sounds, movies and other multimedia files into a
visual on-line library. It is used to find and retrieve source files for use in
other materials. Fetch is available for the Macintosh.

Adobe Gallery Effects is a three-volume collection of plug-in filters for
automatic image enhancement directly within the leading graphics software
applications. Gallery Effects is available on the Macintosh, Power Macintosh and
Windows platforms.

TextureMaker is a resolution-independent, texture-design program that creates
textures such as marble, wood, stone, liquid and cloud effects. The software
includes more than 100 predefined textures and is available for the Macintosh
and Power Macintosh.

CONSUMER PRODUCTS

The Company offers a line of affordable software products designed for personal
use. These products include personal information managers and contact software,
entry-level paint and drawing programs, automated desktop publishing software,
and design software for home improvement projects.

SALES AND MARKETING

Application products generally are marketed through the reseller channel and a
direct sales force. There are more than 9,000 authorized resellers in the United
States and Canada, and more than 150 distributors throughout Europe and the
Pacific Rim. Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere and Adobe type
products are also provided by hardware OEMs and software vendors who bundle
Adobe software with scanners, CPUs, hardware peripherals and other software
applications.

COMPETITION

The markets for Adobe's applications for image processing, graphics and digital
video are characterized by intense competition, evolving industry standards,
rapid technology developments, and frequent new product introductions. In the
Macintosh and Windows



                                       12


<PAGE>

markets, several competitors have an established presence in the retail channel.
In addition, the market for high-end graphics on the Windows platform is not as
mature as that for the Macintosh. As a result, acceptance of the Company's
programs on that platform will depend upon how the market evolves. Adobe's
future success will depend upon its ability to enhance its existing products,
introduce new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, meet changing
customer needs, extend its core technology into new applications, and anticipate
or respond to emerging standards and other technological changes.

The Company believes that the principal competitive factors in the personal
computer applications market include product features and functions, installed
base, ease of use, product reliability, and price and performance
characteristics. The majority of the Company's application products compete
favorably in their markets on the basis of product features and reliability,
ease of use, and price and performance characteristics. Adobe also believes that
its application programs gain a competitive benefit from their foundation in
PostScript language technology. However, Adobe faces challenges in several areas
and expects to encounter continued competition both from established companies
and from new companies that are now developing, or may develop, competing
products.

Price competition is a factor encountered by Adobe in several of its product
categories. Suppliers in certain segments of the microcomputer software market
have significantly reduced prices through the use of "site licenses" (which
permit the copying of a program and its documentation), direct price offers,
bundling, software suites and discount pricing for large-volume retail
customers. The growth of high-volume retailers, which compete primarily on the
basis of price, has intensified the competition between software vendors. Price
competition is particularly keen in the consumer software market, and there is
no assurance that current pricing levels can be maintained.

Large-scale electronic publishing systems for publication and engineering
departments, as well as for other groups requiring page-composition features,
are offered by several companies, including Interleaf Inc. and Frame Technology.
Additionally, companies that develop word-processing software are incorporating
desktop publishing features into their products. Finally, numerous low-end
desktop publishing packages are available from a variety of software developers,
such as Serif's Page Plus and Microsoft's Publisher. As a result, Adobe expects
to face increasing competition in the desktop publishing market from a number of
other software developers, some of whom may have greater financing, marketing
and technological resources than that of Adobe, targeting one or more of the
various markets for which Adobe products are designed.

In recent years, PageMaker has been subject to increasing competition. The
Macintosh version of PageMaker 5.0 competes with software from a variety of
independent vendors, but principally Quark, Inc.'s QuarkXPress. The Windows
version of PageMaker 5.0 competes with software offered by several vendors,
principally Ventura Publisher, marketed and sold by Corel Corporation,
QuarkXPress for Windows, and FrameMaker by Frame Technology Corporation. Adobe
Illustrator 5.5 for Macintosh and Windows competes with FreeHand, CorelDraw and
Deneba Canvas. Competition for Adobe Photoshop 3.0 on the Windows platform is
from Micrografx Picture Publisher and Fractal Design Painter X2.




                                       13


<PAGE>

Adobe Premiere 4.0  for the Macintosh and Windows platforms is a video editing
program. The market for desktop video editing is young; however, the Company
faces competition from products such as VideoStudio from U-Lead, Digital Video
Producer from Asymetrix, MediaMerge from ATI, Razor from In:sync and VideoShop
from Avid.

After Effects 2.0 is a motion graphics, digital compositing and special effects
program for broadcast video and film for the Macintosh. The program typically
retails for approximately $1,995 and competes with software from companies that
include Parallax and Discreet Logic, costing more than $25,000, and dedicated
hardware from Quantel and other companies that costs more than $500,000.

Competition for digital type market share is intense. Adobe's Type 1 outline
font format, introduced in 1984 and published as part of the open PostScript
language standard, provides digital type that can be printed at any resolution,
on any type of output device. Today, more than 30 vendors have developed over
15,000 Type 1 typefaces, including Japanese and Cyrillic typefaces.

Persuasion 3.0 for the Macintosh and Windows platforms, and Persuasion 2.1 for
Windows are business presentations programs whose major competitors include
Microsoft's PowerPoint (the only other such program to support both Macintosh
and Windows), Software Publishing's Harvard Graphics for Windows, and Lotus'
Freelance Graphics for Windows.

The Consumer products include SuperPaint, DateBook Pro and TouchBase Pro
software. Each product has numerous competitors, and price competition is quite
intense in this market.

SuperPaint software combines painting, drawing, and image-enhancement
capabilities in a single program for general business users and graphics
professionals. It competes with UltraPaint and Artworks from Deneba Software,
DeskPaint/DeskDraw from Zedcor, and the combination of MacPaint and MacDraw from
Claris.

DateBook Pro for the Macintosh competes with Now Up-To-Date from Now Software,
DayMaker from Pastel Software, and CalendarMaker from CE Software. As a Personal
Information Manager (PIM) integrated with TouchBase, it competes with ACT from
Symantec.

TouchBase Pro for the Macintosh and TouchBase for Windows is a contact manager
that competes with Now Contact from Now Software, Dynodex from Portfolio
Systems, InTouch from Advanced Software, Ecco from Arabesque, and AddressBook
Plus from Spinnaker. As a PIM integrated with DateBook, it competes with ACT
from Symantec.

TRAINING

Adobe's Classroom in a Box curriculum kit is available to third-party training
companies, consultants and educational institutions that teach Adobe
Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere and complementary programs. In
addition, Adobe publishes a line of reference books through Adobe Press, a joint
book publishing venture between the




                                       14


<PAGE>


Company and Macmillan Computer Publishing, which also provides training to end
users. These products, as well as the Company's "Train the Trainer" classes,
generate revenue and promote Adobe application products.

MANUFACTURING

Duplication of disks, printing and assembly of the components are performed
primarily by outside parties in the United States for the United States and
Pacific Rim markets. Shipment of completed products is performed by the Company.
Disk duplication for European language versions of the Company's products is
managed through the European headquarters. The duplicated disks of European-
language versions of products are then forwarded to McQueen Holdings Limited
("McQueen"), an affiliate of the Company in Scotland, which prints and assembles
the components and ships the completed product. Quality control tests are
performed on all duplicated disks and finished products.

To date, Adobe has not experienced significant difficulties in obtaining raw
materials for the manufacture of its products or in the duplication of disks,
printing and assembly of components, although an interruption in production by a
supplier could result in a delay in shipment of Adobe's products. There was no
material backlog of orders as of November 25, 1994.


                                       15


<PAGE>

                             PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT


Since the personal computer software industry is characterized by rapid
technological change, a continuous high level of expenditures is required for
the enhancement of existing products and the development of new products. Adobe
primarily develops its software internally. The Company sometimes acquires
products developed by others by purchasing the stock or assets of the business
entity that held ownership rights to the technology.  In other instances, Adobe
has licensed or purchased the intellectual property ownership rights of programs
developed by others with license or technology transfer agreements that may
obligate the Company to pay royalties, typically based on a percentage of the
revenues generated by those programs.

During the years ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993, and November 27,
1992, the Company's research and development expenses, including costs related
to contract development, were $99.0 million, $86.7 million and $65.2 million,
respectively. During 1994, the Company acquired LaserTools Corporation and
Compumation, Incorporated, and $15.5 million was allocated to in-process
research and development, and was expensed at the time of these acquisitions. In
1993, the Company acquired two software developers: AH Software, Inc. (doing
business as After Hours Software) and The Company of Science & Art.
Approximately $4.3 million of the total purchase price for these two companies
was allocated to in-process research and development, and was expensed at the
time of acquisition. In 1992, the Company acquired two related companies, OCR
Systems Incorporated and Nonlinear Technologies, Incorporated, and wrote off
$6.3 million of in-process research and development at the time of the
acquisitions.




                                       16



<PAGE>

                              PRODUCT PROTECTION


Adobe regards its software as proprietary and protects it with copyrights,
patents, trademarks, trade secret laws, internal and external nondisclosure
precautions, and restrictions on disclosure and transferability that are
incorporated into its software license agreements. The Company protects the
source code of its software programs as trade secrets, and makes source code
available to OEM customers only under limited circumstances and specific
security and confidentiality constraints.

The Company's products are generally licensed to end users on a "right to use"
basis pursuant to a license that is nontransferable and restricts the use of the
products to the customer's internal purposes on a designated number of printers
or computers. The Company also relies on copyright laws and on "shrink wrap"
licenses that are not signed by the end user. Copyright protection may be
unavailable under the laws of certain countries. The enforceability of "shrink
wrap" licenses has not been conclusively determined. Adobe has obtained many
patents and has registered numerous trademarks and logos in the United States
and foreign countries.

Policing unauthorized use of computer software is difficult, and software piracy
is a persistent problem for the software industry. This problem is particularly
acute in international markets. Adobe conducts vigorous anti-piracy programs.
Adobe products do not contain copy protection, except on copies for
international distribution in certain countries, and except for its highest
priced and specialized prepress products, TrapWise and PressWise. Many products,
including PageMaker 5.0, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator, incorporate
network copy-detection features. These capabilities help encourage compliance
with the Company's license agreements by alerting customers about certain
concurrent usage problems over a given network. Network copy detection has
become increasingly popular among higher priced software products.

Adobe believes that, because computer software technology changes and develops
rapidly, patent, trade secret and copyright protection are less significant than
factors such as the knowledge, ability and experience of its personnel, name
recognition, contractual relationships and ongoing product development.


                                       17


<PAGE>

                                   EMPLOYEES


As of December 31, 1994, Adobe employed 1,565 people, none of whom are
represented by a labor union. The Company has not experienced work stoppages and
believes its employee relations are good. Competition in recruiting personnel in
the software industry is intense. Adobe believes its future success will depend
in part on its continued ability to recruit and retain highly skilled
management, marketing and technical personnel.


                                       18


<PAGE>


ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

The following table sets forth the location, approximate square footage and use
of each of the principal properties used by the Company. Except as where
indicated, all of the properties are leased or subleased by the Company. Such
leases expire at various times through August 1996. The annual base rent expense
for all facilities (including operating expenses, property taxes and
assessments) is currently $14.8 million and is subject to annual adjustment.

                                   Approximate
                                        Square
                      Location         Footage                     Use
- - ------------------------------     -----------  ----------------------
The Americas:
   Mountain View, California           290,018  Research, product
                                                  development, sales,
                                                  marketing and
                                                  administration
   Seattle, Washington                 185,000  Product development and
                                                  customer support
   Santa Clara, California             127,688  Customer support and
                                                  warehouse/distribution
                                                  center
Europe:
   Edinburgh, Scotland (Owned)          22,000  Sales, marketing and
                                                  administration
Pacific Rim:
   Tokyo, Japan                         20,237  Sales, marketing and
                                                  administration


In general, all facilities are in good condition and are operating at capacities
which range from 75 percent to 100 percent.

                                       19


<PAGE>

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Not applicable.



                                       20


<PAGE>

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

A special meeting of shareholders was held on August 31, 1994.

A proposal to approve and adopt the Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger and
Reorganizaton (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of July 13, 1994, among Adobe,
P Acquisition Corp ("Merger Sub") and Aldus Corporation ("Aldus"), and to
approve the merger (the "Merger") of Merger Sub with and into Aldus pursuant to
the Merger Agreement and the issuance of shares of Adobe common stock in the
Merger was approved by the shareholders. This proposal received the following
votes:

              For:       35,704,518
          Against:          158,725
          Abstain:          519,701

As a result of the Merger, Aldus shareholders received 1.0 share of Adobe common
stock for each share of their Aldus common stock, and Aldus became a wholly
owned subsidiary of Adobe.

Also, a proposal to approve and adopt an amendment (the "By-Law Amendment") to
Adobe's Restated By-Laws to increase the maximum authorized number of directors
from seven to eight. Approval of the Merger Agreement, the Merger and the
issuance of shares of Adobe common stock in the Merger is a condition to such
amendment of Adobe's Restated By-Laws. This proposal received the following
votes:

              For:       35,878,867
          Against:          186,130
          Abstain:          534,240

In addition, a proposal to approve Adobe's 1994 Performance and Restricted Stock
Plan (the "Performance Plan"). This Performance Plan is an amendment and
restatement of the 1989 Restricted Stock Plan which increases by 500,000 the
number of shares reserved for issuance under the plan and provides for
performance-based awards. This proposal received the following votes:

         For:            35,201,112
     Against:             5,137,626
     Abstain:               316,922

Broker non-votes are included in the determination of the number of shares
present and voting for purposes of determining the presence of a quorum at the
Company's annual meeting of shareholders. They are not, however, counted for
purposes of determining the number of votes cast for a proposal.


                                       21

<PAGE>


PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the
symbol "ADBE". On December 30, 1994, there were 2,211 holders of record of the
Company's common stock. Because many of such shares are held by brokers and
other institutions on behalf of shareholders, the Company is unable estimate the
total number of shareholders represented by these record holders. The following
table sets forth the high and low sales price per share of the Company's common
stock, and the dividends paid per share, for the periods indicated, as adjusted
for a two-for-one stock split effective July 1993.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                         Price Range          Per Share
                           -------------------------
                               High             Low            Dividend
                          ----------      -----------       -----------

Fiscal 1993:
<S>                       <C>              <C>              <C>
  First Quarter           $    22.88       $    14.50       $      .05
  Second Quarter               35.75            18.50              .05
  Third Quarter                37.00            19.25              .05
  Fourth Quarter               24.63            16.25              .05
  Fiscal Year                  37.00            14.50              .20

Fiscal 1994:
  First Quarter                32.00            19.75              .05
  Second Quarter               34.50            21.50              .05
  Third Quarter                34.50            24.50              .05
  Fourth Quarter               38.50            29.75              .05

  Fiscal Year                  38.50            19.75              .20

</TABLE>

The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock each quarter since the
second quarter of 1988. The declaration of future dividends is within the
discretion of the Board of Directors of the Company and will depend upon
business conditions, results of operations, the financial condition of the
Company, and other factors.

                                       22

<PAGE>

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

          THE FOLLOWING SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (PRESENTED
          IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS AND EMPLOYEE DATA)
          ARE DERIVED FROM THE COMPANY'S CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
          STATEMENTS. THIS DATA SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE
          CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO, AND
          WITH ITEM 7., MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                        Years Ended
                               --------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Nov. 25        Nov. 26        Nov. 27        Nov. 29        Nov.30
                                  1994           1993           1992           1991           1990
                               ---------      ---------      ---------      ---------      ---------
<S>                            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Operations:
 Revenue                       $ 597,772      $ 520,237      $ 440,063      $ 397,183      $ 303,713
 Merger transaction and
  restructuring costs             72,183             --             --             --             --
 Income before
  income taxes                    39,997        105,060         79,448        118,279        101,556
 Net income(1)                     6,309         66,545         50,389         75,444         63,831
 Net income per share(1)(2)         0.10           1.11           0.82           1.23           1.09
 Dividends declared
  per common share(2)(3)             .20            .20            .16            .16            .12

Financial position:
 Cash and short-term
  investments                    400,360        308,985        230,980        222,551        145,832
  Working capital                363,631        318,215        247,878        251,721        163,676
 Total assets                    625,503        529,840        437,623        399,764        286,882
 Shareholders' equity            456,771        414,102        351,743        338,079        223,590

Additional data:
  Worldwide employees              1,582          2,051          1,894          1,653          1,317

<FN>
- - -------------------
(1)  Reflects incremental costs incurred during 1994 in connection with the
     acquisition of Aldus and the write-off of acquired in-process research and
     development, totaling $72.2 million and $15.5 million, respectively. (For
     additional information, see Note 2 and Note 6 in the Notes to Consolidated
     Financial Statements.)
(2)  Adjusted for a two-for-one stock split, effective July 1993.
(3)  Amounts prior to the merger with Aldus on August 31, 1994, have not been
     restated to reflect the effects of the pooling of interest.
</TABLE>

                                       23

<PAGE>

ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

          THE FOLLOWING DISCUSSION (PRESENTED IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE
          AMOUNTS) SHOULD BE READ IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE CONSOLIDATED
          FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES THERETO.


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


OVERVIEW

Adobe develops, markets and supports computer software products and technologies
that enable users to create, display, print and communicate electronic
documents. The Company licenses its technology to major computer and publishing
suppliers, and markets application software products and typeface products for
authoring and editing visually rich documents, including digital and video
output. The Company distributes its products through a network of original
equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers, distributors and dealers, and value-
added resellers (VARs) and system integrators. The Company has operations in the
Americas, Europe and the Pacific Rim.

In August 1994, the Company acquired Aldus Corporation ("Aldus"). Aldus began
operations in 1984 and created computer software solutions that help people
throughout the world effectively communicate information and ideas. Aldus
focused on three lines of business: applications for the professional print
publishing, graphics and prepress markets; applications for the general consumer
market; and applications for the interactive publishing market. To effect the
combination, approximately 14.2 million shares of Adobe's common stock were
issued in exchange for all of the outstanding common stock of Aldus. The merger
was accounted for by the pooling of interests method, and accordingly, all
annual and interim financial information prior to the merger has been restated
to combine the results of the Company and Aldus. In connection with the merger,
the Company recorded $14.6 million of merger transaction costs and $57.6 million
of restructuring costs in the fourth quarter of 1994. In addition, the Company
incurred one-time expenses that are not included in the restructuring charge but
were related to the Aldus acquisition. These charges included writing off
certain capitalized software development costs, transition personnel bonuses,
and relocation expenses among others, and totaled approximately $10.1 million.

REVENUE
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                            1994   Change         1993    Change          1992
                        --------   ------       ------    ------        ------
<S>                     <C>        <C>          <C>       <C>           <C>
TOTAL REVENUE             $597.8       15%      $520.2        18%       $440.1
</TABLE>

In 1994, the Company's worldwide revenue grew 15 percent over the prior year,
compared with revenue growth of 18 percent in 1993 over 1992.

Revenue growth in 1994 and 1993 is attributable to an increase in application
products revenue resulting from the release of new and enhanced products, as
well as growth in the

                                       24

<PAGE>

Company's royalty revenue from licensing its PostScript interpreter to OEM
customers. Product unit volume (as opposed to price) growth was the principal
factor in the Company's revenue growth in application products revenue. The
continued decline in laser printer prices was offset by increases in shipments
of the Configurable PostScript Interpreter (CPSI), resulting in an increase in
1994 licensing revenues.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                               1994      Change       1993    Change     1992
                              ------     ------     ------    ------    -----
<S>                           <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>
PRODUCT GROUP REVENUE --
  LICENSING                   $156.7          7%    $146.2        -4%   $152.7
Percentage of
  total revenue                 26.2%                 28.1%               34.7%
</TABLE>

Licensing revenue is derived from shipments by OEM customers of products
containing the PostScript interpreter and the Display PostScript system. Such
products include printers in both Roman and Japanese languages, imagesetters and
workstations.  Licensing revenue is also derived from shipments of products
containing CPSI by OEM customers. CPSI is a fully functional PostScript
interpreter that resides on the host computer system rather than in a dedicated
controller integrated into an output device. The configuration flexibility of
CPSI allows OEMs and software developers to create and market a variety of
PostScript products independently of controller hardware development.


The number of units shipped by OEMs continued to grow on an annual basis in 1994
and 1993.  Royalty per unit is generally calculated as a percentage of the end
user list price of a printer. During 1993, several of the Company's OEMs
introduced lower end printers, resulting in a shift in product mix to a lower
average list price, and accordingly a decline in licensing revenue compared to
1992. While the product mix shift continued in 1994, shipments of products
containing the PostScript interpreter were supplemented by increased shipments
of several new products containing CPSI, producing increased licensing revenue
in 1994 over 1993.

The Company has seen year-to-year increases in the number of OEM customers from
which it is receiving licensing revenue, demonstrating continued acceptance of
PostScript software, as well as reflecting a diversification of the Company's
customer base across Macintosh, IBM PC and compatibles, and multiple platform
markets.  No OEM customer accounted for more than 10 percent of the Company's
total revenue in 1994.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                1994     Change       1993    Change      1992
                              ------     ------     ------    ------    ------
<S>                           <C>        <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>
PRODUCT GROUP REVENUE --
  APPLICATION PRODUCTS        $441.1         18%    $374.0        30%   $287.4
Percentage of
  total revenue                 73.8%                 71.9%               65.3%
</TABLE>

Application products revenue is derived from shipments of application software
programs marketed through retail and distribution channels; however, the
information products are becoming more widely distributed through VARs and
systems integrators.

Application products revenue grew in 1994 and 1993 due to increased demand for
Adobe

                                       25

<PAGE>

Illustrator, Adobe Photoshop and PageMaker for both the Macintosh and Windows
platforms. In addition, the release of new versions of Adobe Illustrator, for
the Macintosh, and Adobe Photoshop and PageMaker, for the Macintosh and Windows
platforms, contributed to the revenue growth in 1994 and 1993. The Macintosh
versions include new features and native support for the Power Macintosh
computers. The release of Aldus FreeHand 4.0 (divested by the Company in January
1995) for Windows and the Power Macintosh platforms also contributed to 1994
revenue growth. Localized versions for the Japanese market of Adobe Photoshop,
Adobe Illustrator and PageMaker for the Macintosh platform also contributed to
revenue growth from application products, while reduced sales for individual
typeface packages offset a portion of the revenue growth in 1994. In addition,
increasing sales for Adobe Premiere, a video editing and sequencing tool; After
Effects, a video post-production special effects tool; and Fetch, a digital
media cataloging and retrieval tool, contributed to the increase in application
products revenue growth. Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop were also shipped
for selected UNIX platforms in 1994, contributing to product revenue increases.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

DIRECT COSTS

                                1994     Change       1993    Change      1992
                              ------     ------      -----    ------     -----
<S>                           <C>        <C>         <C>      <C>        <C>
DIRECT COSTS                  $111.8         16%     $96.7        10%    $87.9

Percentage of
 total revenue                  18.7%                 18.6%               20.0%
</TABLE>

Direct costs include royalties; amortization of typeface production costs;
amortization of acquired technologies; and direct product, packaging and
shipping costs. Typeface production costs were fully amortized in 1994.

Licensing revenue typically has higher gross margins than application products
revenue; therefore, revenue mix will affect overall gross margins. During 1994,
the revenue mix of application products as a percentage of total revenue
increased to 73.8 percent, compared to 71.9 percent during 1993, while direct
costs as a percentage of total revenue were 18.7 percent, compared to 18.6
percent in 1993. The increase in direct costs, in absolute dollars, has been
mitigated by actions taken by the Company to reduce direct costs. In 1993, the
Company achieved lower per unit manufacturing costs for certain products,
reduced royalty agreement rates, and reduced typeface production costs
amortization, all of which contributed to minimal growth of 1994 direct costs as
a percentage of total revenue.

The Company also delivers its type library on its Type On Call CD-ROM media, and
end users wishing to license typeface designs call the Company with a credit
card number to receive the unlocking code for the desired typeface. This method
of delivery also contributes to reduced direct costs. Other applications are
also available through the Company's distributors on CD-ROM.

                                       26


<PAGE>


OPERATING EXPENSES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                           1994     Change     1993  Change       1992
                         ------    -------   ------  ------      ------
<S>                       <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>        <C>
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
 COSTS --
  RESEARCH AND
  DEVELOPMENT             $99.0        14%    $86.7     33%      $65.2

Percentage of
total revenue              16.6%               16.7%              14.8%
</TABLE>

Research and development expenses consist principally of salaries and benefits
for software developers, contracted development efforts, related facilities
costs, and expenses associated with computer equipment used in software
development.

Research and development expense has increased significantly over the last three
years as the Company invested in new technologies, new product development, and
the infrastructure to support such activities. The increase reflects the
expansion of the Company's engineering staff and related costs required to
support its continued emphasis on developing new products and enhancing existing
products. Many of these engineers are working with OEM customers to design and
implement PostScript Level 2 devices. The Company has begun working with many of
its OEM customers in a co-development program. This allows customers to be more
self-sufficient in new device development by taking on more of the
implementation task themselves rather than relying so heavily on the Company's
engineers. While this mitigates certain costs, the Company continues to make
significant investments in development of its PostScript and application
software products.

The Company believes that continued investments in research and development are
necessary to remain competitive in the marketplace, and are directly related to
continued, timely development of new and enhanced products. The Company intends
to continue recruiting and hiring experienced software developers but expects
that research and development expenditures in 1995 will approximate current
spending levels as a percentage of revenue.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                     1994     Change     1993  Change      1992
                                   ------    -------   ------  ------    ------
<S>                                <C>       <C>       <C>     <C>        <C>
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
COSTS --
     AMORTIZATION OF
     CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE
     DEVELOPMENT COSTS              $13.3        30%     $10.2     1%     $10.1
Percentage of
 total revenue                        2.2%                 2.0%             2.3%
</TABLE>

In the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.
86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or
Otherwise Marketed," software development expenditures on Adobe products, after
achieving technological feasibility, were deemed to be immaterial. Certain
software development expenditures on Aldus products have been capitalized and
are being amortized over the


                                       27


<PAGE>

lives of the respective products. In the fourth quarter of 1994, software
development expenditures on Aldus products, after reaching technological
feasibility, were immaterial and the Company anticipates this trend to continue
in the future. Accordingly, the fourth quarter of 1994 did, and all of 1995
will, reflect the additional expense of amortizing capitalized software
development costs acquired with Aldus, in addition to the actual development
expenditures (classified as research and development) made prior to achieving
technological feasibility.

Amortization of capitalized software development costs increased in 1994 due to
the amortization of PageMaker 5.0 released in the second half of 1993, and the
release of other new application products.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                1994   Change       1993   Change       1992
                              ------   ------     ------   ------     ------
<S>                           <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
SALES, MARKETING AND
     CUSTOMER SUPPORT         $201.0      18%     $170.9      17%     $145.7

Percentage of
     total revenue              33.6%               32.9%               33.1%
</TABLE>

Sales, marketing and customer support expenses generally include salaries and
benefits, sales commissions, travel expenses and related facility costs for the
Company's sales, marketing, customer support and distribution personnel. Sales,
marketing and customer support expense also includes the costs of programs aimed
at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and other market
development programs.

Increases in sales, marketing and customer support expenses are due to increased
advertising and promotional expenditures for upgrades of existing products and
further development of customer and technical support services to support a
growing installed base of customers.

Continuing efforts to expand markets and increase penetration into targeted
software markets, and increasing competition in the software industry, are
expected to cause 1995 sales, marketing and customer support expenditures to
approximate the same spending levels as a percentage of revenue.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                1994   Change       1993   Change       1992
                              ------   ------     ------   ------     ------
<S>                           <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
GENERAL AND
     ADMINISTRATIVE            $54.0      -9%      $59.2      17%      $50.4

Percentage of
     total revenue               9.0%               11.4%              11.5%
</TABLE>

General and administrative expenses consist principally of salaries and
benefits, travel expenses, and related facility costs for the finance, human
resources, legal, information services and administrative personnel of the
Company. General and administrative expenses also include outside legal and
accounting fees, bad debts, and expenses associated with computer equipment and
software used in the administration of the business.

During 1993, the growth in spending on general and administrative expenses was



                                       28


<PAGE>

attributable to the growth in the systems, processes and people necessary to
support overall increases in the scope of the Company's operations, as well as
additional costs incurred for legal defenses and settlement of an Aldus class-
action securities lawsuit. General and administrative spending decreased as a
percentage of revenue in 1994 from 1993 due to a reduction of salary and
depreciation expense resulting from restructuring activities, as well as reduced
legal expenditures.

The Company expects general and administrative spending to be a lower percentage
of revenue in 1995 than was achieved in 1994.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                1994   Change       1993   Change       1992
                              ------   ------     ------   ------     ------
<S>                           <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
WRITE-OFF OF ACQUIRED
     IN-PROCESS RESEARCH
     AND DEVELOPMENT          $15.5     260%        $4.3     -32%        $6.3
Percentage of
     total revenue              2.6%                 0.8%                 1.4%
</TABLE>

During 1994, the Company acquired LaserTools Corporation and Compumation,
Incorporated for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million, of which $15.5
million was allocated to in-process research and development, and was expensed
at the time of these acquisitions.

During 1993, the Company acquired two software developers -- AH Software, Inc.
(doing business as After Hours Software) and The Company of Science & Art.
Approximately $4.3 million of the total purchase price for these two companies
was allocated to in-process research and development, and was expensed at the
time of acquisition.

During 1992, the Company acquired OCR Systems Incorporated and Nonlinear
Technologies, Incorporated for an aggregate purchase price of $6.8 million, of
which $6.3 million was allocated to in-process research and development, and was
expensed at the time of these acquisitions.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                1994   Change       1993   Change       1992
                              ------   ------     ------   ------     ------
<S>                           <C>      <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
MERGER TRANSACTION AND
     RESTRUCTURING COSTS       $72.2       --         --       --         --
Percentage of
     total revenue              12.1%                 --                  --
</TABLE>

During the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company recorded merger transaction and
restructuring costs associated with the acquisition of Aldus of $14.6 million
and $57.6 million, respectively. The restructuring costs included $46.5 million
related to cash expenditures and noncash items of $25.7 million, consisting
primarily of write-offs of redundant information systems and equipment, and
duplicate product lines. As of November 25, 1994, the balance of $28.4 million
in accrued restructuring costs represents expected future cash expenditures,
most of which will be spent in 1995.



                                       29



<PAGE>

To execute the merger, the Company incurred transaction costs consisting
principally of transaction fees for investment bankers, attorneys, accountants,
financial printing and other related charges to negotiate the merger, conduct
financial and technical due diligence, file appropriate regulatory documents and
solicit shareholder votes.

As a result of the merger, certain technical support, customer service,
distribution and administration functions have been or will be combined and/or
reduced. Such restructuring costs include severance and outplacement charges of
$20.8 million related to approximately 500 terminated employees. Affected
employees received notification of their termination by September 9, 1994, and
final assignments are expected to be completed by the first quarter of 1995.

As a condition to the merger, effective January 1995, the Company will no longer
sell and distribute FreeHand, the illustration program previously sold and
distributed by Aldus. In addition, PhotoStyler, an image and video editing
software tool, was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 1994, as the product
competed with certain existing products of the Company. The respective
inventories and capitalized software development costs and technologies of these
duplicate product lines were written off in the fourth quarter of 1994,
resulting in a $15.0 million charge to restructuring costs.

To facilitate the operations of the Company, the combined organization migrated
to common management information systems, which resulted in a write-off of the
book value of the abandoned systems and equipment. The write-off of abandoned
systems included in restructuring costs was $10.8 million. In addition,
redundant offices in Europe, Japan, Canada and the United States will be
consolidated. Lease and third-party contract termination payments totaling $11.0
million, resulting from the planned closure of 10 facilities, are accrued as
part of the restructuring costs.

The Company is unable to determine the effects that the merger and restructuring
actions will have on future operating results and the financial condition of the
organization. In addition to the acquisition-related expenses recognized in the
restructuring charge, the Company incurred approximately $10.1 million of
certain one-time charges that were recognized in operating expenses. These
charges included writing off certain capitalized software development costs,
transition personnel bonuses, relocation expenses and expenses incurred for
integrating the two companies' benefit plans.

NONOPERATING INCOME

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   1994      Change    1993      Change    1992
                                 ------     -------  ------     -------   -----
<S>                              <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>
INTEREST, INVESTMENT AND
     OTHER INCOME                  $9.0        -30%   $12.8         16%   $11.0
Percentage of
     total revenue                  1.5%                2.5%                2.5%
</TABLE>

Interest, investment and other income decreased by $3.8 million in 1994 from
1993 and increased by $1.8 million in 1993 over 1992. Interest and other income
was adversely impacted by $1.5 million in 1994, as the Company sold several
securities (acquired in the Aldus acquisition) for losses in principal created
by increases in interest rates during 1994, and for the write-off of an
investment in a privately held enterprise. Interest,


                                       30



<PAGE>

investment and other income in 1993 included a gain of $3.9 million on the sale
of common stock held as an investment and a $1.0 million write-off of an
investment in a privately held enterprise. While the Company's cash balances and
short-term investments have increased each year due to profitable operations and
modest expenditures for capital outlays and other investments, 1994 interest,
investment and other income would have increased approximately $0.6 million
absent the 1993 net gain on the sales of common stock and the losses experienced
in 1994. Such increase is attributable to increased levels of cash invested and
a slight increase in interest earned on the Company's investments as driven by
slight increases in prevailing interest rates.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   1994      Change    1993      Change    1992
                                 ------     -------  ------     -------   -----
<S>                              <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>
LOSS ON REAL ESTATE
     PARTNERSHIP                   --         --       --          --      $6.0
Percentage of
     total revenue                 --                  --                   1.4%
</TABLE>

The Company incurred a $6.0 million loss on a real estate partnership in 1992,
as it withdrew from this partnership, due to complications that affected the
developer's ability to finance the project and to meet specific development
timetables.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                   1994     Change     1993     Change     1992
                                 ------     -------  ------     -------   -----
<S>                              <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>       <C>
PROVISION FOR
     INCOME TAXES                 $33.7        -12%   $38.5         32%   $29.1
Percentage of
     total revenue                  5.6%                7.4%                6.6%
Effective tax rate                 84.2%               36.6%               36.5%
</TABLE>

The Company's effective tax rate in 1994 increased significantly over the
effective tax rates of 1993 and 1992, due primarily to one-time, nondeductible
merger transaction and restructuring costs. An analysis of the differences
between the statutory and effective income tax rates is provided in Note 9 to
the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. In 1995, the Company expects
its effective tax rate to approximate that of 1993 and 1992.



                                       31

<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

NET INCOME AND NET INCOME PER SHARE
                             1994       Change      1993    Change      1992
                           ------      -------    ------    ------     -----
<S>                          <C>        <C>         <C>     <C>         <C>
NET INCOME                   $6.3          -91%    $66.5         32%     $50.4
Percentage of
     total revenue            1.1%                  12.8%                 11.5%

NET INCOME PER SHARE         $0.10          -91%    $1.11         35%     $0.82
Weighted shares
     (in thousands)         61,620            2%   60,144         -2%    61,193
</TABLE>

Net income for 1994 represents a 91 percent decrease from 1993 net income of
$66.5 million. Results of operations in 1994 included several one-time charges
that would not normally be included in the Company's operating results. A
reconciliation of the reported results of operations, to the results of
operations excluding these one-time charges for 1994, follows.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                            Income
                                            Before         Income                           Net
                                            Income            Tax            Net         Income
                                             Taxes      Provision         Income      Per Share
                                        ----------     ----------      ---------      ---------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>             <C>             <C>
Reported results of operations          $   39,997     $   33,688      $   6,309       $    .10
Write-off of acquired in-process
research and development:
  Compumation, Incorporated                  3,045             --          3,045            .05
  LaserTools Corporation                    12,424             --         12,424            .20

Acquisition of Aldus:
  Merger transaction costs                  14,618             --         14,618            .23
  Restructuring costs                       57,565         19,922         37,643            .61
  Other one-time expenses
    resulting from the acquisition          10,092          3,734          6,358            .10
                                        ----------      ---------      ---------       --------

Results of operations excluding
  one-time charges                      $  137,741      $  57,344      $  80,397       $   1.29
                                        ----------      ---------      ---------       --------
                                        ----------      ---------      ---------       --------
</TABLE>

Furthermore, the future effective tax rate is expected to be approximately 37
percent. Had this been in effect in 1994, the net income per share, excluding
the above one-time charges, would have been $1.39 per share.

Net income for 1993 increased 32 percent, including a $3.9 million gain on the
sale of an investment. Earnings per share were $1.11, a 35 percent increase from
1992. The one-time gain on the sale of an investment resulted in an increase in
earnings per share of $.04.

FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The Company believes that in the future its results of operations could be
impacted by factors such as the ability of the Company to integrate Adobe and
Aldus product lines,


                                       32


<PAGE>

renegotiation of royalty arrangements, delays in shipment of the Company's new
products and major new versions of existing products, market acceptance of new
products and upgrades, growth in worldwide personal computer and printer sales
and sales price adjustments, consolidation in the OEM printer business, and
adverse changes in general economic conditions in any of the countries in which
the Company does business.

In connection with the merger with Aldus, the Company has sought to reduce
combined expenses by the elimination of duplicate or unnecessary facilities,
employees, marketing programs and other expenses. The Company believes that the
major impact of such reductions occurred in the fourth quarter of 1994 but
expects some additional impact in the first quarter of 1995. The Company expects
that these reductions will benefit future operating results, but the reductions
could adversely impact the earnings of the combined company. In addition, there
can be no assurance that the integration of the product lines of the two
companies will not have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.

As previously stated, the Company will no longer market FreeHand after January
1, 1995 and has made the decision to discontinue the marketing of PhotoStyler.
These two products aggregated $53.2 million of revenue and $35.4 million of
gross profit in 1994. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
replace this lost revenue or that it will be able to do so as profitably.

The Company's OEM customers on occasion seek to renegotiate their royalty
arrangements. The Company evaluates these requests on a case-by-case basis. If
an agreement is not reached, a customer may decide to pursue other options,
including licensing a PostScript language compatible interpreter from a third
party, which could result in lower licensing revenue for the Company.

With the acquisition of Aldus, the Company will derive a larger portion of its
revenues from its subsidiaries located in Europe and the Pacific Rim. Certain
transactions by these subsidiaries are denominated in foreign currencies. As a
result, the Company's operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates.

The Company's ability to develop and market products, including upgrades of
currently shipping products, that successfully adapt to current market needs may
also have an impact on the results of operations. A portion of the Company's
future revenue will come from these products. Delays in such introductions could
have an adverse effect on the Company's revenue, earnings or stock price. The
Company cannot determine the ultimate effect that these new products or upgrades
will have on its sales or results of operations.

Due to the factors noted above, the Company's future earnings and stock price
may be subject to significant volatility, particularly on a quarterly basis. Any
shortfall in revenue or earnings from levels expected by securities analysts
could have an immediate and significant adverse effect on the trading price of
the Company's common stock in any given period. Additionally, the Company may
not learn of such shortfalls until late in the fiscal quarter, which could
result in an even more immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the
Company's common stock. Finally, the Company participates in a highly dynamic
industry, which often results in significant volatility of the Company's common
stock price.


                                       33


<PAGE>


FINANCIAL CONDITION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

                                  1994  Change      1993  Change          1992
                                ------  ------    ------  ------        ------
<S>                             <C>     <C>       <C>     <C>           <C>
CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND
  SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS        $400.4     30%    $309.0      34%       $231.0
</TABLE>

Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $400.4 million as of
November 25, 1994, compared to $309.0 million as of November 26, 1993,
representing 64 percent and 58 percent of total assets, respectively. Cash
equivalents consist of highly liquid money market instruments. In 1994, the
Company adopted SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities." In accordance with SFAS No. 115, prior period financial
statements have not been restated to reflect the change in accounting principle.
The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No. 115 was not material to the Company's
financial position and results of operations. Certain cash equivalents and all
of the Company's short-term investments, consisting principally of municipal
bonds, commercial paper, auction rate securities, United States government and
government agency securities, and asset-backed securities, are classified as
available-for-sale under the provisions of SFAS No. 115. The securities are
carried at fair value with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported
as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

The Company's cash balances and short-term investments have increased each year
due to profitable operations, but have been offset partially by modest
expenditures for capital outlays and other investments. In 1994, growth in cash
balances and short-term investments was reduced by increased corporate merger
and acquisition activity.

NONCURRENT LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                  1994  Change      1993   Change         1992
                                ------  ------    ------   ------       ------
<S>                             <C>     <C>       <C>      <C>          <C>
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES AND
  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY          $456.8      9%    $421.0      20%       $351.7
</TABLE>

Included above are put warrants and shareholders' equity. The Company has no
long-term debt. Shareholders' equity as of November 25, 1994 was $456.8 million,
compared to $414.1 million as of November 26, 1993.

The Company has paid cash dividends on its common stock each quarter since the
second quarter of 1988. During 1994, the Company paid cash dividends of $.20 per
common share. The Board of Directors of the Company approved a two-for-one stock
split on July 9, 1993, payable in the form of a stock dividend for shareholders
of record as of July 27, 1993, with a distribution date of August 10, 1993. All
share and per share data has been restated to reflect this stock split. The
declaration of future dividends is within the discretion of the Board of
Directors of the Company and will depend upon business conditions, results of
operations, the financial condition of the Company and other factors.


                                       34


<PAGE>

Under its stock repurchase program, the Company expects to continue to
repurchase shares from time to time in 1995. These share repurchases are
intended to fund the employee stock purchase and stock option plans. Until the
merger with Aldus, the Company had engaged in a regular share repurchase
program. In 1995, the Company plans to continue that regular repurchase program.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

WORKING CAPITAL

                           1994   Change         1993   Change        1992
                         ------   ------       ------   ------      ------
<S>                      <C>      <C>          <C>      <C>         <C>
WORKING CAPITAL          $363.6       14%      $318.2      28%      $247.9
</TABLE>

Net working capital grew to $363.6 million as of November 25, 1994, compared to
$318.2 million as of November 26, 1993. Cash flows provided by operations during
1994 was $142.5 million. Cash generated from operations has been sufficient to
fund the Company's investment in research and development, and sales and
marketing activities.

Expenditures for property and equipment totaled $28.5 million. Such expenditures
are expected to continue, including computer systems for development, sales and
marketing, product support, and administrative staff. In addition, in 1994 the
Company paid approximately $14.8 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire
LaserTools Corporation, Compumation, Incorporated, Image Club Graphics,
Incorporated, and the remaining 20 percent interest in Aldus K.K. In the future,
additional cash may be used to acquire software products or technologies
complementary to the Company's business. Net cash provided by financing
activities during 1994 was $25.0 million, primarily resulting from the issuance
of common stock under employee stock plans.

The Company's principal commitments as of November 25, 1994 consisted of
obligations under operating leases, a real estate development agreement, and
various service and lease guarantee agreements with a related party. In 1994,
the Company entered into a real estate development agreement for the
construction of an office facility and in 1996 will enter into an operating
lease agreement for this facility. The Company will have the option to purchase
the facility at the end of the lease term. In the event the Company chooses not
to exercise this option, the Company is obligated to arrange the sale of the
facility to an unrelated party and is required to pay the lessor any difference
between the net sales proceeds and the lessor's net investment in the facility,
in an amount not to exceed that which would preclude classification of the lease
as an operating lease, approximately $52.0 million. The Company also is
required, periodically during the construction period, to deposit funds with the
lessor to secure the performance of its obligations under the lease and as of
November 25, 1994, the Company had deposited approximately $2.3 million in
securities. Also during 1994, the Company entered into various agreements with
McQueen Holdings Limited ("McQueen") whereby the Company has agreed to guarantee
obligations under operating leases for certain facilities utilized by McQueen,
and to guarantee certain levels of business between Adobe and McQueen. The
Company currently owns 10 percent of the outstanding stock in McQueen as a
result of the merger with Aldus.


                                       35


<PAGE>

The Company believes that existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments, together with cash generated from operations, will provide
sufficient funds for the Company to meet its operating cash requirements in the
foreseeable future.


                                       36


<PAGE>

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The Company's financial statements required by this item are submitted as a
separate section of this Form 10-K. See Item 14.(a)1. for a listing of financial
statements provided in the section titled "FINANCIAL STATEMENTS".

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The following tables (presented in thousands, except per share amounts) set
forth  quarterly supplementary data for each of the years in the two-year period
ended November 25, 1994. and reflect the results of the Company as restated to
reflect the merger of the Company and Aldus Corporation in 1994, which was
accounted for as a pooling of interests. Share and per share amounts have been
adjusted for a two-for-one stock split, effective July 1993.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                          1994
                                         ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                      Unaudited
                                                                                  Quarter Ended        Audited
                                         ------------------------------------------------------           Year
                                           Feb. 25         May 27        Aug. 26        Nov. 25          Ended
                                              1994           1994           1994           1994        Nov. 25
                                         ---------      ---------      ---------      ---------      ---------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Revenue                                  $ 135,892      $ 149,793      $ 146,637      $ 165,450      $ 597,772
Gross margin                               109,887        121,899        120,475        133,701        485,962
Merger transaction and
  restructuring costs                           --             --             --         72,183         72,183
Income (loss) before
  income taxes                              29,941         27,453         28,752        (46,149)        39,997
Net income (loss)                           19,093         17,306         18,061        (48,151)         6,309
Net income (loss)
  per share                                    .31            .28            .29           (.79)           .10
Shares used in computing
  net income (loss)
  per share                                 61,289         61,768         62,566         60,856         61,620
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                          1993
                                        ----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                      Unaudited
                                                                                  Quarter Ended        Audited
                                        -------------------------------------------------------           Year
                                           Feb. 26         May 28        Aug. 27        Nov. 26          Ended
                                              1993           1993           1993           1993        Nov. 26
                                        ----------     ----------      ---------     ----------     ----------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>             <C>           <C>            <C>
Revenue                                 $  110,113     $  125,254      $ 140,942     $  143,928     $  520,237
Gross margin                                89,760        102,463        115,547        115,829        423,599
Income before
  income taxes                              25,633         23,983         24,941         30,503        105,060
Net income                                  15,824         14,672         15,623         20,426         66,545
Net income per share                           .27            .24            .26            .34           1.11
Shares used in computing
  net income per share                      59,530         60,003         60,758         60,231         60,144

</TABLE>


                                       37


<PAGE>

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
          ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

There were no disagreements on any matter of accounting principles, financial
statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure to be reported under this
item.





                                       38

<PAGE>

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


DIRECTORS

Information with respect to Directors may be found in the section captioned
"Election of Directors" appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on April 5, 1995. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS


The executive officers of the Company as of February 13, 1995 are as follows:

Name                      Age      Positions
- - ----------------------    -------- ----------------------------
John E. Warnock              54    Chairman of the Board and
                                   Chief Executive Officer
Charles M. Geschke           55    President, Chief Operating Officer
                                   and Director
Derek J. Gray                45    Senior Vice President and General
                                   Manager, Adobe Europe
Stephen A. MacDonald         49    Senior Vice President and General
                                   Manager, Systems Products Division
M. Bruce Nakao               51    Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                   Administration, Chief Financial
                                   Officer, Treasurer and Assistant
                                   Secretary
David B. Pratt               55    Senior Vice President and General
                                   Manager, Application Products
                                   Division
Colleen M. Pouliot           36    Vice President, General Counsel and
                                   Secretary

A biography of the principal occupations for the past five years of each of the
executive officers is provided below.

Dr. Warnock was a founder of the Company and has been its Chairman of the Board
since April 1989. He has been a director and Chief Executive Officer since 1982
and was its President from December 1982 through March 1989. From April 1978
until founding the Company, Dr. Warnock was Principal Scientist of the Imaging
Sciences Laboratory at Xerox Corporation s Palo Alto Research Center. Dr.
Warnock received a Ph.D. in electrical engineering from the University of Utah.

Dr. Geschke was a founder of the Company and has been its President since April
1989.

                                       39

<PAGE>

He has been a director since 1982, Chief Operating Officer since December 1986,
and was Executive Vice President from December 1982 through March 1989. Dr.
Geschke also served as the Company's Secretary from December 1982 until
September 1987. From October 1972 until founding the Company, Dr. Geschke was
the Manager of the Imaging Sciences Laboratory at Xerox Corporation's Palo Alto
Research Center. Dr. Geschke received a Ph.D. in computer science from Carnegie-
Mellon University.

Mr. Gray joined the Company upon the closing of the acquisition of Aldus in
August 1994. Prior to that time, Mr. Gray served as Managing Director of Aldus
Europe Limited since 1986. Mr. Gray is a co-founder and, for the ten years prior
to joining Aldus, Managing Director of McQueen Holdings Limited, a distributor
of computer hardware and software, of which the Company is a 10 percent
shareholder by virtue of the acquisition of Aldus.

Mr. MacDonald joined the Company in May 1983 as Vice President. In August 1989,
he was promoted to Senior Vice President. From February 1972 until he joined the
Company, Mr. MacDonald was a Marketing Manager for Hewlett-Packard Company.

Mr. Nakao joined the Company in May 1986 and was elected Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary in June 1986. In December
1992, he was promoted to Senior Vice President. From February 1982 to May 1986,
Mr. Nakao was Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant
Secretary of Ross Systems, Inc. From January 1980 to February 1982, Mr. Nakao
was Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Dividend
Industries, Inc.

Mr. Pratt joined the Company in May 1988 as General Manager of the Application
Products Division. In August 1989, he was promoted to Vice President. In
September 1992, he was promoted to Senior Vice President. From October 1987 to
April 1988, Mr. Pratt was Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
of Logitech Corporation. From May 1986 to June 1987, Mr. Pratt was Senior Vice
President and Chief Operating Officer of Quantum Corporation. From March 1982
through January 1986, Mr. Pratt was President and Chief Executive Officer of
Boschert Incorporated.

Ms. Pouliot joined the Company in July 1988 as Associate General Counsel and
became the Corporate Secretary in April 1989. In December 1990, she was promoted
to General Counsel. In December 1992, she was promoted to Vice President. Ms.
Pouliot was an associate at the law firm of Ware & Freidenrich from November
1983 until she joined the Company.

                                       40

<PAGE>

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Executive Compensation" appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held on April 5, 1995. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                       41

<PAGE>

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
        MANAGEMENT

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" appearing in
the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to shareholders in connection
with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 5, 1995. Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

                                       42


<PAGE>

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Certain Transactions" appearing in the definitive Proxy Statement to be
delivered to shareholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held April 5, 1995. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.


                                       43

<PAGE>

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

(a)  Documents filed as part of this report

    1.  Financial statements

                                                          Sequentially
                                                              Numbered
    Financial Statement Description                               Page
    ----------------------------------------               ------------
    *   Management's Report                                      57
    *   Independent Auditors' Report                             58
    *   Consolidated Balance Sheets                              59
        November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993
    *   Consolidated Statements of Income                        61
        Years Ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993,
         and November 27, 1992
    *   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity          62
        Years Ended November 25 1994, November 26, 1993,
         and November 27, 1992
    *   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                    65
        Years Ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993,
         and November 27, 1992
    *   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements               68
    *   Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors        95


                                       44

<PAGE>

    2.  Financial statement schedule

                                                                 Sequentially
    Schedule                                                         Numbered
    Number          Financial Statement Schedule Description             Page
    ---------       ----------------------------------------     ------------
    Schedule II     Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                    97

    Other financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either
    not required, not applicable, or the required information is shown in the
    consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.


                                       45


<PAGE>

3.Exhibits


                                  Sequentially       Incorporated By Reference
Exhibit                               Numbered    ----------------------------
Number  Exhibit Description              Page      Form       Date      Number
- - ------  -------------------------- ----------     --------   ---------  -------
3.1     Articles of Incorporation,       N/A         S-1     07/01/86     3.1
        as amended
3.1.1   Amended and Restated             N/A        10-K     11/30/88     3.1.1
        Articles of Incorporation
3.1.2   Certificate of Amend-            N/A        10-K     11/30/88     3.1.2
        ment of Articles of
        Incorporation
3.1.3   Certificate of Amend-            N/A        10-K     11/29/91     3.1.3
        ment of Articles of
        Incorporation
3.1.4   Certificate of Amend-            N/A        10-K     11/26/93     3.1.4
        ment of Articles of
        Incorporation
3.2     Bylaws as amended                N/A         S-1     07/01/86     3.2
3.2.1   Bylaws as amended                N/A        10-K     11/30/88     3.2.1
3.2.2   Bylaws as amended                N/A        10-K     11/30/90     3.2.2
3.2.3   Restated Bylaws                  N/A        10-K     11/29/91     3.2.3
3.2.4   Restated Bylaws                  N/A        10-K     11/27/93     3.2.4
3.2.5   Restated Bylaws                  N/A        10-K     11/26/93     3.2.5
3.2.6   Restated Bylaws                   99         N/A        N/A       N/A
10.1    1984 Stock Option Plan           N/A         S-1     07/01/86     10.1
10.1.1  1984 Stock Option Plan,          N/A        10-K     11/30/87     10.1.1
        as amended
10.1.2  1984 Stock Option Plan,          N/A        10-K     11/30/88     10.1.2
        as amended
10.1.3  1984 Stock Option Plan,          N/A        10-K     11/30/89     10.1.3
        as amended
10.1.4  1984 Stock Option Plan,          N/A        10-K     11/30/90     10.1.4
        as amended
10.1.5  1984 Stock Option Plan,          N/A        10-K     11/27/92     10.1.5
        as amended
10.1.6  1984 Stock Option Plan,          N/A        10-Q     07/02/93     10.1.6
        as amended
10.1.7  1994 Stock Option Plan           N/A        10-Q     05/27/94     10.1.7

                                                                     (Continued)


                                       46


<PAGE>

3.  Exhibits (Continued)


                                  Sequentially      Incorporated By Reference
Exhibit                               Numbered    ----------------------------
Number  Exhibit Description              Page      Form       Date      Number
- - ------  -------------------------- ----------     --------   ---------  -------
10.2     Common Stock Purchase           N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.2
         Agreement of John E.
         Warnock dated December
         29, 1982, and, as amended
         November 30, 1983
10.3     Common Stock Purchase           N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.3
         Agreement of Charles M.
         Geschke dated December
         29, 1982, and, as amended
         November 30, 1983
10.4     Common Stock Purchase           N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.4
         Agreement of Q.T. Wiles
         dated December 29, 1982
10.5     Common Stock Purchase           N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.5
         Agreement of David Evans
         dated December 29, 1982
10.6     Common Stock Purchase           N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.6
         Agreement of William
         Hambrecht dated December
         29, 1982
10.7     Exchange Agreement              N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.7
         dated December 29,
         1983, for John E.
         Warnock
10.8     Exchange Agreement              N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.8
         dated December 29,
         1983, for Charles M.
         Geschke
10.9     Form of Shareholders            N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.9
         Exchange Agreement used
         in connection with the
         exchange of shares of Old
         Adobe for shares of the
         Company

                                                                     (Continued)


                                       47

<PAGE>

3.  Exhibits (Continued)


                                  Sequentially      Incorporated By Reference
Exhibit                               Numbered    ----------------------------
Number  Exhibit Description              Page      Form       Date      Number
- - ------  -------------------------- ----------     --------   ---------  -------
10.10    Form of Agreement for           N/A         S-1     07/01/86     10.10
         Assignment of Limited
         Partnership Interest used
         in connection with exchange
         of limited partnership
         interests in Adobe Systems
         Limited, a California limited
         partnership, for shares of the
         Series B Preferred Stock of
         the Company
10.11    Registration Rights             N/A         S-1     07/01/86     10.11
         Agreement dated December
         29, 1983
10.12    Old Adobe's 1983 Stock          N/A         S-1     07/01/86     10.12
         Purchase Plan and the
         Company's 1984 Stock
         Purchase Plan with standard
         form of Stock Purchase
         Agreement
10.12.1  1988 Employee Stock             N/A        10-Q     07/06/94    10.12.1
         Purchase Plan, as amended
10.13    Form of Employee                N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.13
         Common Stock Purchase
         Agreement dated July 23,
         1984
10.14    Warrant to Purchase Series      N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.14
         C Preferred Stock to Apple
         Computer, Inc., dated
         November 26, 1984, with
         executed subscription form
         dated November 28, 1984
10.15    Warrant to Purchase             N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.15
         Series C Preferred Stock
         to Evans & Sutherland
         Computer Corporation
         dated April 25, 1984,
         with executed subscription
         form dated June 19, 1986
                                                                     (Continued)


                                       48

<PAGE>

3.  Exhibits (Continued)


                                  Sequentially      Incorporated By Reference
Exhibit                               Numbered    ----------------------------
Number  Exhibit Description              Page      Form       Date      Number
- - ------  -------------------------- ----------     --------   ---------  -------
10.16    License Agreement               N/A         S-1     07/01/86     10.16
         between the Company
         and Evans & Sutherland
         Computer Corporation
         dated April 25, 1984
10.17    License Agreement               N/A         S-1     07/01/86     10.17
         between the Company and
         Apple Computer, Inc., dated
         November 12, 1985
         (confidential treatment
         granted)
10.17.1  License Agreement               N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.17.1
         Restatement between the
         Company and Apple
         Computer, Inc., dated April
         1, 1987 (confidential
         treatment granted)
10.17.2  Amendment No. 1 to the          N/A        10-K     11/30/90    10.17.2
         License Agreement
         Restatement between the
         Company and Apple
         Computer, Inc., dated
         November 27, 1990
         (confidential treatment
         granted).
10.18    Lease Agreement dated           N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.18
         November 11, 1983,
         between Mozart Family
         Trust and Epson America
         Inc.
10.19    Assignment of Lease             N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.19
         dated November 11, 1983,
         between Epson America
         Inc. and the Company
         dated February 1, 1986
10.20    Lease Agreement                 N/A         S-1     07/01/86      10.20
         between Mozart Family
         Trust and the Company
         dated November 30, 1983

                                                                     (Continued)


                                       49


<PAGE>

3.  Exhibits (Continued)


                                  Sequentially      Incorporated By Reference
Exhibit                               Numbered    ----------------------------
Number  Exhibit Description              Page      Form       Date      Number
- - ------  -------------------------- ----------     --------   ---------  -------
10.21    Bonus Plans                     N/A         S-1     07/01/86    10.21
10.21.1  Revised Bonus Plan              N/A        10-K     11/27/92    10.21.1
10.21.2  Revised Bonus Plan              N/A        10-K     11/26/93    10.21.2
10.22    Restricted Stock Option         N/A        10-K     11/30/87    10.22
         Plan
10.22.1  Restricted Stock Option         N/A        10-K     11/30/89    10.22.1
         Plan, as amended
10.22.2  Restricted Stock Option         N/A        10-K     11/30/90    10.22.2
         Plan as, amended
10.22.3  Restricted Stock Option         N/A        10-K     11/29/91    10.22.3
         Plan as, amended
10.22.4  Restricted Stock Option         N/A        10-Q     07/06/94    10.22.4
         Plan as, amended
10.23    Amended and Restated            N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.23
         Software License Agree-
         ment between the Company
         and QMS, Inc., dated May
         15, 1987 (confidential
         treatment granted)
10.24    1989 Restricted Stock Plan      N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.24
10.24.1  1994 Performance and            N/A         S-4     07/27/94    10.1
         Restricted Stock Plan
10.25    Form of Indemnity Agree-        N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.25
         ment
10.26    Lease Agreement by and          N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.26
         between Charleston Place
         Associates and Adobe
         Systems Incorporated dated
         April 14, 1987
10.26.1  Amendment One to Lease          N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.26.1
         Agreement dated March 1,
         1988
10.26.2  Amendment Two to Lease          N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.26.2
         Agreement dated
         September 1, 1988
                                                                     (Continued)


                                       50


<PAGE>

3.  Exhibits (Continued)


                                  Sequentially      Incorporated By Reference
Exhibit                               Numbered    ----------------------------
Number  Exhibit Description              Page      Form       Date      Number
- - ------  -------------------------- ----------     --------   ---------  -------
10.27    Lease Agreement by and          N/A        10-K     11/30/88    10.27
         between John Mozart and
         Adobe Systems
         Incorporated dated July
         20, 1988
10.28    Limited Partnership             N/A        10-K      11/29/91    10.28
         Agreement of University
         Circle Building I, Ltd.,
         dated May 22, 1991
10.29    University Centre               N/A        10-K      11/29/91    10.29
         Building I Lease Agree-
         ment dated May 22, 1991
10.30    University Circle               N/A        10-K      11/27/92    10.30
         Termination and Security
         Agreement and Mutual
         Release dated January 7,
         1993
10.31    Restated Agreement and          N/A         S-4      07/13/94    10.31
         and Plan of Merger and
         Reorganization By and
         Among Adobe Systems
         Incorporated, P Acquisition
         Corp and Aldus
         Corporation

10.32    Sublease of the Land and        126         N/A         N/A        N/A
         Lease of the Improvements
         By and Between Sumitomo
         Bank Leasing and Finance
         Inc. and Adobe Systems
         Incorporated
11       Computation of Earnings         193         N/A         N/A        N/A
         Per Common Share
21       Subsidiaries of the             194         N/A         N/A        N/A
         Registrant
23       Consent of Independent          195         N/A         N/A        N/A
         Auditors
23.1     Consent of Ernst &              196         N/A         N/A        N/A
         Young LLP, Independent
         Auditors
27       Financial Data Schedule         197         N/A         N/A        N/A


                                       51


<PAGE>

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

    One report on Form 8-K dated August 31, 1994 was filed by the Company
    describing the completion of the acquisition of Aldus Corporation.


                                       52

<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Mountain
View, California, on the 13th  day of February, 1995.

                              ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                              By  /s/ M. Bruce Nakao
                              -------------------------------------
                                 M. Bruce Nakao,
                                 Senior Vice President, Finance and
                                 Administration, Chief Financial Officer,
                                 Treasurer and Assistant Secretary
                                 (Principal Financial and Accounting
                                 Officer)

                                                                     (Continued)


                                       53

<PAGE>


                                   SIGNATURES
                                   (CONTINUED)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on the 13th day of February 1995.

Signature                               Title
- - ---------------------------------       -----------------------------------

/s/    John E. Warnock                  Chairman of the Board of Directors
- - ---------------------------------       and Chief Executive Officer
       John E. Warnock                  (Principal Executive Officer)

/s/  Charles M. Geschke                 President, Chief Operating Officer
- - ---------------------------------       and Director
     Charles M. Geschke                 (Principal Operating Officer)

/s/ William R. Hambrecht                Director
- - ---------------------------------
    William R. Hambrecht

/s/   Robert Sedgewick                  Director
- - ---------------------------------
      Robert Sedgewick

/s/   Delbert W. Yocam                  Director
- - ---------------------------------
      Delbert W. Yocam

/s/  William J. Spencer                 Director
- - ---------------------------------
     William J. Spencer

/s/     Paul Brainerd                   Director
- - ---------------------------------
        Paul Brainerd

/s/    Gene P. Carter                   Director
- - ---------------------------------
       Gene P. Carter

/s/    M. Bruce Nakao                   Senior Vice President, Finance and
- - ---------------------------------       Administration, Chief Financial Officer,
       M. Bruce Nakao                   Treasurer and Assistant Secretary
                                        (Principal Financial and Accounting
                                        Officer)



                                       54


<PAGE>

                              SUMMARY OF TRADEMARKS

The following trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated or its subsidiaries,
which may be registered in certain jurisdictions, are referenced in this
Form 10-K:


  Acrobat
  Adobe
  Adobe Dimensions
  Adobe Home Publisher
  Adobe Illustrator
  Adobe Photoshop
  Adobe Premiere
  Adobe Streamline
  Adobe Type Manager
  After Effects
  Aldus
  Color Central
  DateBook
  Display PostScript
  Fetch
  Gallary Effects
  IntelliDraw
  PageMaker
  Persuasion
  Photostyler
  PostScript
  PrePrint
  PressWise
  Print Central
  SuperPaint
  TouchBase
  TrapWise
  SuperATM

All other brand or product names are trademarks or registered trademarks of
their respective holders.


                                       55


<PAGE>

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

As required under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, the
consolidated financial statements of the Company are provided in this separate
section. The consolidated financial statements included in this section are as
follows:

                                                                Sequentially
                                                                    Numbered
Financial Statement Description                                         Page
- - -------------------------------------------------------------   --------------
*   Management's Report                                                 57
*   Independent Auditors' Report                                        58
*   Consolidated Balance Sheets                                         59
    November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993
*   Consolidated Statements of Income                                   61
    Years Ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993,
     and November 27, 1992
*   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity                     62
    Years Ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993,
     and November 27, 1992
*   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                               65
    Years Ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993,
     and November 27, 1992
*   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                          68
*   Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors                   95


                                       56



<PAGE>

                               MANAGEMENT'S REPORT

Management is responsible for all the information and representations contained
in the consolidated financial statements and other sections of this FORM 10-K.
Management believes that the consolidated financial statements have been
prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles appropriate
in the circumstances to reflect in all material respects the substance of events
and transactions that should be included, and that the other information in this
FORM 10-K is consistent with those statements. In preparing the consolidated
financial statements, management makes informed judgments and estimates of the
expected effects of events and transactions that are currently being accounted
for.

In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the consolidated financial
statements, management depends on the Company's system of internal accounting
control. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are
safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management's
authorization, and are recorded properly to permit the preparation of
consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. In designing control procedures, management recognizes
that errors or irregularities may nevertheless occur. Also, estimates and
judgments are required to assess and balance the relative cost and expected
benefits of the controls. Management believes that the Company's accounting
controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could
be material to the consolidated financial statements are prevented or would be
detected within a timely period by employees in the normal course of performing
their assigned functions.

The Board of Directors pursues its oversight role for these consolidated
financial statements through the Audit Committee, which is comprised solely of
Directors who are not officers or employees of the Company. The Audit Committee
meets with management periodically to review their work and to monitor the
discharge of each of their responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets
periodically with KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, the independent auditors who have free
access to the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors, without management
present, to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and financial
reporting matters.

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP is engaged to express an opinion on our consolidated
financial statements. Their opinion is based on procedures believed by them to
be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial
statements are not materially misleading and do not contain material errors.



M. Bruce Nakao
Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration,
Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Assistant Secretary
December 20, 1994

                                       57


<PAGE>




                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adobe Systems Incorporated:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Adobe Systems
Incorporated and subsidiaries as of November 25, 1994, and November 26, 1993 and
the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended November 25, 1994. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also
have audited the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying
index. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits. We did not audit the financial
statements of Aldus Corporation, a company acquired by the Company in a business
combination accounted for as a pooling of interests, as described in Note 2 to
the consolidated financial statements, which statements reflect total assets
constituting 33 percent as of November 26, 1993, and total revenues constituting
40 percent in both fiscal 1993 and 1992, of the related consolidated totals.
Those statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished
to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts included for Aldus
Corporation, is based solely upon the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of the other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Adobe Systems Incorporated and
subsidiaries as of November 25, 1994, and November 26, 1993, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended November 25, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.


                                   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



San Jose, California
December 20, 1994


                                       58


<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                  November 25    November 26
                                                         1994           1993
                                                  -----------    -----------

                                     ASSETS
         <S>                                      <C>            <C>
         Current assets:
           Cash and cash equivalents              $  190,091     $  134,039
           Short-term investments                    210,269        174,946
           Receivables                                96,585         84,864
           Inventories                                 9,619         10,779
           Other current assets                        7,837          9,821
           Deferred income taxes                      17,962         12,598
                                                  -----------    -----------
         Total current assets                        532,363        427,047
         Property and equipment                       39,104         49,135
         Other assets                                 45,561         53,124
         Deferred income taxes                         8,475            534
                                                  -----------    -----------
                                                  $  625,503      $ 529,840
                                                  -----------    -----------
                                                  -----------    -----------
</TABLE>

                                                                 (Continued)







SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                       59


<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                   November 25   November 26
                                                          1994          1993
                                                   -----------   -----------
                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
<S>                                                 <C>            <C>
Current liabilities:
  Trade and other payables                          $   30,840     $  20,925
  Accrued expenses                                      79,000        59,114
  Accrued restructuring costs                           28,457            --
  Income taxes payable                                  23,083        21,189
  Deferred revenue                                       7,352         7,604
                                                   -----------   -----------
Total current liabilities                              168,732       108,832
                                                   -----------   -----------
Put warrants                                                --         6,906

Shareholders' equity:
 Preferred stock, no par value;
  2,000,000 shares authorized;
  none issued                                               --            --
Common stock, no par value;
  200,000,000 shares authorized;
  61,150,049 and 58,651,027 shares issued
  and outstanding as of November 25, 1994
  and November 26, 1993, respectively                  142,207        90,199
Unrealized losses on investments                        (1,088)           --
Retained earnings                                      319,704       328,207
Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments     (4,052)       (4,304)
                                                   -----------   -----------
Total shareholders' equity                             456,771       414,102
                                                   -----------   -----------
                                                  $    625,503     $ 529,840
                                                   -----------   -----------
                                                   -----------   -----------
</TABLE>



SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.



                                       60


<PAGE>



                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                          Years Ended
                                            ------------------------------------------
                                            November 25    November 26    November 27
                                                   1994           1993           1992
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
<S>                                         <C>             <C>            <C>
Revenue:
 Licensing                                   $  156,652     $  146,176     $  152,701
 Application products                           441,120        374,061        287,362
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Total revenue                                   597,772        520,237        440,063

Direct costs                                    111,810         96,638         87,871
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Gross margin                                    485,962        423,599        352,192
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------

Operating expenses:
 Software development costs:
  Research and development                       98,995         86,727         65,181
  Amortization of capitalized software
   development costs                             13,316         10,208         10,128
 Sales, marketing and customer
  support                                       200,993        170,945        145,748
 General and administrative                      54,021         59,203         50,344
 Write-off of acquired in-process
  research and development                       15,469          4,285          6,325
 Merger transaction and
  restructuring costs                           72,183              --             --
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Total operating expenses                        454,977        331,368        277,726
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Operating income                                 30,985         92,231         74,466

Nonoperating income (expense):
 Interest, investment and other income            9,012         12,829         10,982
 Loss on real estate partnership                     --             --         (6,000)
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Income before income taxes                       39,997        105,060         79,448

Income tax provision                             33,688         38,515         29,059
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Net income                                   $    6,309      $  66,545     $   50,389
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Net income per share                         $     0.10      $    1.11     $     0.82
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
Shares used in computing net
 income per share                                61,620         60,144         61,193
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
                                            -----------    -----------     ----------
</TABLE>



SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.

                                       61


<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                 Cumulative
                                                                                                    Foreign
                                                 Commom Stock    Unrealized                        Currency
                                   --------------------------     Losses on         Retained    Translation
                                       Shares          Amount   Investments         Earnings    Adjustments             Total
                                   ----------      ----------   -----------       ----------    -----------        ----------
<S>                                <C>             <C>          <C>               <C>           <C>                <C>
Balances as of
  November 29, 1991                59,049,328      $  108,713       $    --       $  227,486      $   1,880        $  338,079


Issuance of common
  stock under Stock
  Option Plans                        977,271           9,406            --               --             --             9,406
Issuance of common
  stock under Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan                 420,154           5,721            --               --             --             5,721
Issuance of common
  stock under Restricted
  Stock Plans                          68,360              --            --               --             --                --
Tax benefit from
  employee stock plans                     --           6,545            --               --             --             6,545
Restricted stock
  compensation expense                     --           2,278            --               --             --             2,278
Dividends declared                         --              --            --           (7,208)            --            (7,208)
Repurchase of common
  stock                            (2,776,670)        (47,744)           --               --             --           (47,744)
Foreign currency
  translation adjustment                   --              --            --               --         (5,723)           (5,723)
Net income                                 --              --            --           50,389             --            50,389
                                   ----------      ----------    ----------       ----------     ----------         ----------
Balances as of
  November 27, 1992                57,738,443          84,919            --          270,667         (3,843)          351,743
</TABLE>

                                                                     (Continued)


SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                       62

<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                 Cumulative
                                                                                                    Foreign
                                                 Commom Stock    Unrealized                        Currency
                                   --------------------------     Losses on         Retained    Translation
                                       Shares          Amount   Investments         Earnings    Adjustments             Total
                                   ----------      ----------   -----------       ----------    -----------        ----------
<S>                                <C>             <C>          <C>               <C>           <C>                <C>
Balances as of
  November 27, 1992                57,738,443       $  84,919      $  --          $  270,667    $     (3,843)      $     351,743


Issuance of common
  stock under Stock
  Option Plans                      1,371,387          15,715         --                  --              --              15,715
Issuance of common
  stock under Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan                 510,461           6,980         --                  --              --               6,980
Issuance of common
  stock under Restricted
  Stock Plans                          50,300              --         --                  --              --                  --
Tax benefit from
  employee stock plans                     --          10,134         --                  --              --              10,134
Restricted stock
  compensation expense                     --           1,651         --                  --              --               1,651
Dividends declared                         --              --         --              (9,005)             --              (9,005)
Acquisition of The
  Company of Science
  & Art                               105,049           2,545         --                  --              --               2,545
Repurchase of common
  stock                            (1,124,613)        (25,533)        --                  --              --             (25,533)
Proceeds from sales of
  put warrants                             --             694         --                  --              --                 694
Reclassification of put
  warrant obligations                      --          (6,906)        --                  --              --              (6,906)
Foreign currency
  translation adjustment                   --              --         --                  --            (461)               (461)
Net income                                 --              --         --              66,545              --              66,545
                                   ----------      ----------    ----------       ----------     ----------         ----------
Balances as of
  November 26, 1993                58,651,027          90,199         --             328,207          (4,304)            414,102
</TABLE>

                                                                     (Continued)

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                       63

<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                 Cumulative
                                                                                                    Foreign
                                                 Commom Stock    Unrealized                        Currency
                                   --------------------------     Losses on         Retained    Translation
                                       Shares          Amount   Investments         Earnings    Adjustments             Total
                                   ----------      ----------   -----------       ----------    -----------        ----------
<S>                                <C>             <C>          <C>               <C>           <C>                <C>
Balances as of
  November 26, 1993                58,651,027       $  90,199         $  --       $  328,207    $   (4,304)       $    414,102


Issuance of common
  stock under Stock
  Option Plans                      2,331,438          34,962            --               --            --              34,962
Issuance of common
  stock under Employee
  Stock Purchase Plan                 629,992           9,487            --               --            --               9,487
Issuance of common
  stock under Restricted
  Stock Plans                          53,500              --            --               --            --                  --
Tax benefit from
  employee stock plans                     --          12,418            --               --            --              12,418
Restricted stock
  compensation expense                     --           1,064            --               --            --               1,064
Adjustment for change
  in Aldus Corporation
  fiscal year-end                    (130,534)         (3,265)           --           (4,394)          487              (7,172)
Dividends declared                         --              --            --          (10,418)           --             (10,418)
Repurchase of common
  stock                              (385,374)        (10,283)           --               --            --             (10,283)
Proceeds from sales of
  put warrants                             --             719            --               --            --                 719
Reclassification of put
  warrant obligations                      --           6,906            --               --            --               6,906
Unrealized losses on
  investments                              --              --        (1,088)              --            --              (1,088)
Foreign currency
  translation adjustment                   --              --            --               --          (235)               (235)
Net income                                 --              --            --            6,309            --               6,309
                                   ----------      ----------    -----------     -----------    -----------        -----------
Balances as of
  November 25, 1994                61,150,049      $  142,207    $   (1,088)     $   319,704    $   (4,052)        $   456,771
                                   ----------      ----------    -----------     -----------    -----------        -----------
                                   ----------      ----------    -----------     -----------    -----------        -----------
</TABLE>

SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                       64

<PAGE>



                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          Years Ended
                                            -----------------------------------------
                                            November 25    November 26    November 27
                                                   1994           1993           1992
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------

<S>                                         <C>             <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income                                $     6,309     $   66,545      $  50,389
  Adjustments to reconcile net income
    to net cash provided by operating
    activities:
      Restricted stock compensation
        expense                                   1,064          1,651          2,278
      Depreciation and amortization              53,207         45,566         37,130
      Deferred income taxes                     (12,505)        (1,178)       (11,539)
      Unrealized loss on investments                 --           (113)          (509)
      Provision for losses on accounts
        receivable                                1,518          1,842            862
      Tax benefit from employee stock
        plans                                    12,418         10,134          6,545
      Write-off of acquired in-process
        research and development                 15,469          4,285          6,325
      Loss on real estate partnership                --             --          6,000
      Non-cash restructuring costs               25,735             --             --
      Changes in operating assets and
        liabilities:
          Receivables                           (14,965)       (15,631)       (10,134)
          Inventories                             1,004            (85)          (190)
          Other current assets                      669         (1,143)          (132)
          Trade and other payables               11,720           7,866         6,397
          Accrued expenses                       10,915         10,277          6,698
          Accrued restructuring costs            28,457             --             --
          Income taxes payable                    1,495         11,134         16,821
          Deferred revenue                           --            590          2,896
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
Net cash provided by operating
  activities                                    142,510        141,740        119,837
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
</TABLE>


                                                                     (Continued)








SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.



                                       65




<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
                                   (CONTINUED)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                          Years Ended
                                         --------------------------------------------
                                            November 25    November 26    November 27
                                                   1994           1993           1992
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                      <C>               <C>            <C>
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of short-term investments    $  (1,734,357)    $ (698,334)    $ (739,082)
  Maturities and sales of short-term
    investments                              1,697,993        671,064        723,277
  Acquisitions of property and
    equipment                                  (28,526)       (22,984)       (29,022)
  Capitalization of software
    development costs                           (9,133)       (11,573)        (9,821)
  Additions to other assets                    (17,813)        (4,904)       (11,340)
  Acquisitions, net of cash acquired           (14,750)        (4,554)       (12,271)
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------
Net cash used for investing activities        (106,586)       (71,285)       (78,259)
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from issuance of common
    stock                                       44,449         14,045           9,516
  Proceeds from sales of put warrants              719            694             --
  Repurchase of common stock                   (10,283)       (25,533)       (47,744)
  Payment of dividends                          (9,906)        (8,523)        (7,212)
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------
Net cash provided by (used for)
  financing activities                          24,979        (19,317)       (45,440)
Effect of foreign currency exchange rates
  on cash and cash equivalents                  (1,297)          (516)        (4,023)
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------
Net increase (decrease) in cash
  and cash equivalents                          59,606         50,622         (7,885)
Adjustment for change in Aldus
  Corporation fiscal year-end                   (3,554)            --             --
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning
  of year                                      134,039         83,417         91,302
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------
Cash and cash equivalents at end
  of year                                   $  190,091     $  134,039      $  83,417
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------
                                         --------------    -----------    -----------

</TABLE>

                                                                     (Continued)





SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                       66





<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
                                   (CONTINUED)



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                          Years Ended
                                            November 25    November 26    November 27
                                            -----------------------------------------
                                                   1994           1993           1992
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
<S>                                         <C>            <C>            <C>
Supplemental disclosures:
  Cash paid during the year for
    income taxes                            $   25,945     $    21,999    $    16,525
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
  Noncash investing and financing
    activities:
      Dividends declared but not paid       $    2,778      $    2,262     $    1,780
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
      Reclassification of put warrants      $   (6,906)     $    6,906     $       --
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
                                            -----------    -----------    -----------
</TABLE>












SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.


                                       67


<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)

NOTE 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


OPERATIONS

Founded in 1982, Adobe Systems Incorporated ("Adobe" or the "Company") develops,
markets and supports computer software products and technologies that enable
users to create, display, print and communicate electronic documents. The
Company licenses its technology to major computer and publishing suppliers, and
markets application software products and typeface products for authoring and
editing visually rich documents, including digital and video output. The Company
distributes its products through a network of original equipment manufacturer
(OEM) customers, distributors and dealers, and value added resellers (VARs) and
system integrators. The Company has operations in the Americas, Europe and
Pacific Rim regions.

In August 1994, Adobe acquired Aldus Corporation ("Aldus"), a developer of
software applications for the professional publishing, graphics and prepress
markets; interactive publishing; and the general consumer market through a
pooling of interests. Accordingly, the Company's financial statements have been
restated, for all periods prior to the merger, to include the results of
operations, financial position and cash flows of Aldus.

FISCAL YEAR

The Company's fiscal year is a 52-/53- week year ending on the last Friday of
November.

BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include those of Adobe and
its wholly owned subsidiaries, after elimination of all significant intercompany
accounts and transactions.

                                        68



<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

Cash equivalents consist of instruments with maturities of three months or less
at the time of purchase.

In 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities." In
accordance with SFAS No. 115, prior period financial statements have not been
restated to reflect the change in accounting principle. The cumulative effect of
adopting SFAS No. 115 was not material to the Company's financial position and
results of operations. Certain cash equivalents and all of the Company's short-
term and noncurrent investments, consisting principally of United States
government and government agency securities, municipal bonds, commercial paper,
auction rate preferred stocks, and asset-backed securities, are classified as
available-for-sale under the provisions of SFAS No. 115. The securities are
carried at fair value, with the unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes,
reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity.

The amortized cost of available-for-sale debt securities are adjusted for
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. Such
amortization is included in investment income. Realized gains and losses, and
declines in value judged to be other than temporary on available-for-sale
securities are included in investment income. The cost of securities sold is
based on the specific identification method. Interest and dividends on
securities classified as available-for-sale are included in interest, investment
and other income.

The Company owns a minority interest in certain technology companies and a
majority interest in a limited partnership, established to invest in technology
companies, and accounts for such investments under the cost method.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

Assets and liabilities of certain foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency
is the local currency are translated from their respective functional currencies
to United States dollars at year-end exchange rates. Income and expense items
are translated at the average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. The
adjustment resulting from translating the financial statements of such foreign
subsidiaries is reflected as a separate component of shareholders' equity.
Certain other transaction gains or losses, which have not been material, are
reported in results of operations.


                                       69



<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


INVENTORIES

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out basis) or
market (net realizable value).

PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
amortization. Depreciation of a building in Edinburgh, Scotland is calculated
using the straight-line method over 35 years. Depreciation of equipment, and
furniture and fixtures, is calculated using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally three to seven years.
Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the lease term or the
estimated useful lives of the related assets, generally five to nine years.

OTHER ASSETS

Acquired technology, goodwill and licensing agreements are stated at cost less
accumulated amortization. Amortization is provided on the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, generally three years
for technology, five to ten years for goodwill, and three to six years for
licensing agreements. The Company periodically reviews the net realizable value
of its intangible assets and adjusts the carrying amount accordingly.

Research and development costs are charged to expense when incurred. Costs
incurred in the research and development of new software products and
enhancements to existing software products are also expensed as incurred until
the technological feasibility of the product has been established. After
technological feasibility has been established, any additional costs are
capitalized in accordance with SFAS No. 86, "Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed," and are included
in other assets on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Such costs are
amortized using the greater of the ratio of current product revenue to the total
current and anticipated product revenue or the straight-line method of the
software's estimated economic life, generally 9 to 24 months.

                                       70



<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


OTHER ASSETS (CONTINUED)

Typeface production costs comprise direct and indirect costs associated with the
production of typefaces to be used with the PostScript interpreter, or to be
distributed in shrink-wrapped packages to end users through the retail channel
or directly from the Company. Amortization is provided on the straight-line
method over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets, which is
generally three years.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

Licensing revenue is recognized when the Company's OEM customers ship their
products incorporating Adobe's software to their end user customers. The Company
also enters into contracts with OEMs to provide research and development to
adapt the Company's software products to the OEMs' hardware products. Revenue on
such contracts is recognized based on the percentage-of-completion method and is
included in licensing revenue. Deferred revenue comprises payments received in
advance of revenue recognized on the aforementioned contracts. Revenue relating
to OEM licenses stipulating fixed future payment streams in excess of 12 months
is recognized as income on a straight-line basis over the term of the licenses.

Application products revenue is recognized upon shipment. Revenue from
distributors is subject to agreements allowing limited rights of return and
price protection. The Company provides reserves for estimated future returns,
exchanges and price protection. The costs associated with other obligations,
consisting principally of the customer's right to use the Company's technical
hotline, have been immaterial during all periods presented.

DIRECT COSTS

Direct costs include royalties, amortization of typeface production costs,
amortization of acquired technologies, and direct product, packaging and
shipping costs.

                                       71



<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


INCOME TAXES

The Company accounts for its income taxes under SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for
Income Taxes." Under the asset and liability method of SFAS No. 109, deferred
tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences
attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of
existing assets and liabilities measured using enacted tax rates expected to
apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are
expected to be recovered or settled. Under SFAS No. 109, the effect on deferred
tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income
in the period that includes the enactment date.

The Company does not provide deferred income taxes for unremitted earnings of
foreign subsidiaries, as it is management's intent to reinvest these earnings
indefinitely.

CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk are primarily cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and
accounts receivable. The Company's investment portfolio consists of investment-
grade securities diversified among security types, industries and issuers. The
Company's investments are managed by recognized financial institutions that
follow the Company's investment policy. The Company's policy limits the amount
of credit exposure in any one issue and believes no significant concentration of
credit risk exists with respect to these investments.

Credit risk in receivables is limited to OEMs, and to dealers and distributors
of hardware and software products to the retail market. The Company adopts
credit policies and standards to keep pace with the evolving software industry.
Management believes that any risk of accounting loss is significantly reduced
due to the diversity of its products, end users and geographic sales areas. The
Company performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers' financial
condition and requires letters of credit or other guarantees, whenever deemed
necessary.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

Net income per share is based upon weighted average common and dilutive
equivalent shares outstanding using the treasury stock method. Dilutive common
equivalent shares include stock options and restricted stock. Fully diluted
earnings per share for 1994, 1993 and 1992 were not materially different from
primary earnings per share.




                                       72

<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)


RECLASSIFICATIONS

Certain reclassifications were made to the 1993 and 1992 consolidated financial
statements to conform to the 1994 presentation.


                                       73


<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 2.
MERGER WITH ALDUS CORPORATION


On August 31, 1994, the Company issued approximately 14.2 million shares of its
common stock in exchange for all of the common stock of Aldus. This business
combination has been accounted for as a pooling of interests, and accordingly,
the consolidated financial statements for periods prior to the combination
have been restated to include the results of operations, financial position and
cash flows of Aldus.

The results of operations for the separate enterprises and the combined amounts
presented in the accompanying consolidated financial statements are
summarized below.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                               Nine                Years Ended
                                       Months Ended  -------------------------
                                          August 26   November 26  November 27
                                               1994          1993         1992
                                       ------------  ------------ ------------
<S>                                    <C>           <C>          <C>
Revenue:
 Adobe Systems Incorporated            $    260,112  $    313,457 $    265,931
 Aldus Corporation                          172,210       206,780      174,132
                                       ------------  ------------ ------------
Combined                               $    432,322  $    520,237 $    440,063
                                        ------------  ------------ ------------
                                        ------------  ------------ ------------
Net Income:
 Adobe Systems Incorporated            $     49,329  $     57,030 $     43,610
 Aldus Corporation                            5,131         9,515        6,779
                                       ------------  ------------ ------------
Combined                               $     54,460  $     66,545 $     50,389
                                       ------------  ------------ ------------
                                       ------------  ------------ ------------

</TABLE>

Prior to the combination, Aldus' fiscal year ended on December 31. In recording
the business combination, Aldus' financial statements for the 12 months ended
November 25, 1994 were combined with the Company's financial statements for the
same period. Aldus' financial statements for the years ended December 31, 1993
and 1992 were combined with the Company's financial statements for the years
ended November 26, 1993 and November 27, 1992, respectively. Revenue and net
income of Aldus for the month ended December 31, 1993 were $26.1 million and
$4.4 million, respectively. Net income, the foreign currency translation
adjustment, the issuance of common stock, and the net increase in cash and cash
equivalents were adjusted to eliminate the effect of including Aldus' results of
operations, financial position and cash flows for the month ended December 31,
1993 in the years ended November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993.


                                       74

<PAGE>


                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 2.
MERGER WITH ALDUS CORPORATION (CONTINUED)


There were no significant transactions between the Company and Aldus prior to
the combination, which required elimination, and no adjustments were required to
conform accounting policies. However, certain reclassifications were made to the
1993 and 1992 financial statements to conform to the 1994 presentation.

NOTE 3.
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

As discussed in "Note 1 -- Significant Accounting Policies," in 1994 the Company
adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 115.

Certain cash equivalents and all investments have been classified as
available-for-sale securities, and as of November 25, 1994 consisted of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                           Unrealized    Unrealized    Estimated
                                    Cost        Gains        Losses   Fair Value
                            ------------ ------------  -----------  ------------
<S>                         <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
Tax-exempt
  commercial paper
  and agency discount
  notes                     $    152,326 $          4  $        (4) $    152,326
United States
  government
  treasury notes                  30,647           --         (629)       30,018
State and municipal
  bonds and notes                 92,931           --         (927)       92,004
Corporate notes                      511           --           (6)          505
Auction-rate securities           80,865           --            --       80,865
Asset-backed
  securities                       7,199           --         (322)        6,877
                            ------------ ------------  -----------  ------------
                            $    364,479 $          4  $    (1,888) $    362,595
                            ------------ ------------  -----------  ------------
                            ------------ ------------  -----------  ------------
</TABLE>

Unrealized losses are reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity
net of taxes of $0.8 million. Net realized gains for the year ended November 25,
1994 of $0.2 million are included in interest, investment and other income.


                                       75
<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 3.
CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS (CONTINUED)


The Company's investments are classified as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                November 25
                                                                       1994
                                                               ------------
     <S>                                                       <C>
     Cash equivalents                                          $    152,326
     Short-term investments                                         210,269
                                                               ------------
                                                               $    362,595
                                                               ------------
                                                               ------------
</TABLE>

The cost and estimated fair value of available-for-sale securities as of
November 25, 1994, by contractual maturity, consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                   Estimated
                                                     Cost         Fair Value
                                             ------------       ------------
<S>                                          <C>                <C>
Due in one year or less                      $    229,435       $    228,725
Due in one to three years                          46,981             46,128
Auction-rate securities                            80,865             80,865
                                             ------------       ------------
                                                  357,281            355,718
Asset-backed securities                             7,199              6,877
                                             ------------       ------------
                                             $    364,480       $    362,595
                                             ------------       ------------
                                             ------------       ------------
</TABLE>

Included in auction-rate securities are Select Auction Variable Rate Securities
(SAVRS) whose stated maturities exceed ten years, however, the Company had
the option of adjusting the respective interest rates or liquidating these
investments at auction on stated auction dates every 35 days.


                                       76

<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 4.
RECEIVABLES


Receivables consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                  November 25      November 26
                                                         1994             1993
                                                 ------------     ------------
 <S>                                             <C>              <C>
 Trade receivables                               $     69,628     $     58,555
 Royalty receivables                                   26,800           22,532
 Interest and other receivables                         3,410            6,098
                                                 ------------     ------------
                                                       99,838           87,185
 Less allowance for doubtful accounts                   3,253            2,321
                                                 ------------     ------------
                                                 $     96,585     $     84,864
                                                 ------------     ------------
                                                 ------------     ------------
</TABLE>

NOTE 5.
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT


Property and equipment consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                    November 25    November 26
                                                           1994           1993
                                                   ------------   ------------
  <S>                                              <C>            <C>
  Land                                             $        782   $        740
  Building                                                4,615          4,370
  Equipment                                              88,285         82,079
  Furniture and fixtures                                 15,487         29,522
  Leasehold improvements                                  4,146          3,822
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                        113,315        120,533
  Less accumulated depreciation and amortization         74,211         71,398
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                   $     39,104   $     49,135
                                                   ------------   ------------
                                                   ------------   ------------
</TABLE>


                                       77


<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6.
OTHER ASSETS


Other assets consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 November 25     November 26
                                                        1994            1993
                                                ------------    ------------
   <S>                                          <C>             <C>
   Licensing agreements                         $     15,565    $     16,057
   Goodwill                                           22,359          21,806
   Software development costs                         27,199          35,427
   Typeface production costs                              --           4,841
   Miscellaneous other assets                         16,123           7,437
                                                ------------    ------------
                                                      81,246          85,568
   Less accumulated amortization                      35,685          32,444
                                                ------------    ------------
                                                $     45,561    $     53,124
                                                ------------    ------------
                                                ------------    ------------

</TABLE>

The following significant transactions and activities are included in other
assets:

ACQUISITIONS AND GOODWILL

During 1994, the Company acquired LaserTools Corporation and Compumation,
Incorporated for an aggregate purchase price of $17.0 million. Approximately
$15.5 million was allocated to in-process research and development, and was
expensed at the time of these acquisitions. The Company plans to integrate the
acquired technologies into future products. In addition, Image Club Graphics,
Incorporated ("Image Club"), a mail order catalog marketer, was acquired for an
aggregate purchase price of $3.4 million in cash, which was primarily allocated
to goodwill. Also during 1994, the Company acquired the remaining 20 percent
interest of Aldus Kabushiki Kaisha ("Aldus K.K."), a Tokyo-based company, from
Something Good, Inc., a Japanese software company for an aggregate purchase
price of $2.0 million, which was primarily allocated to goodwill. Aldus K.K.
develops and markets Japanese-language versions of the Company's products.
Operating results of Aldus K.K. have been included in the consolidated
statements from the date of acquisition.

During 1993, the Company acquired AH Software, Inc. (doing business as After
Hours Software) and The Company of Science & Art, for an aggregate purchase
price of $4.6 million in cash and $2.5 million in restricted stock. Of the
purchase price, $4.3 million was allocated to in-process research and
development, and was expensed at the time of these acquisitions.



                                       78


<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 6.
OTHER ASSETS (CONTINUED)


During 1992, the Company acquired OCR Systems Incorporated, Nonlinear
Technologies, Incorporated, and 80 percent of Aldus K.K. for an aggregate
purchase price of $13.8 million, of which $6.3 million was allocated to
in-process research and development, and was expensed at the time of these
acquisitions.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS

Unamortized software development costs were $9.1 million and $17.1 million as of
November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993, respectively. Amortization of
software development costs was $8.7 million, $10.2 million and $10.1 million for
the years ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993, and November 27, 1992,
respectively.

TYPEFACE PRODUCTION COSTS

Amortization of typeface production costs charged to direct costs was $4.8
million, $4.6 million and $4.1 million for the years ended November 25, 1994,
November 26, 1993, and November 27, 1992, respectively.

MISCELLANEOUS OTHER ASSETS

Included in miscellaneous other assets are investments in a venture capital
limited partnership, minority interests held in other technology companies and
other intangible assets.

During 1991, the Company invested $6.0 million in a real estate partnership to
acquire land and develop office space for its own use. During 1992, the
Company chose to abandon its efforts to pursue the development of land and
buildings under this partnership. The Company entered into an agreement with the
general partner that dissolved the partnership without recourse to the Company.
Accordingly, the investment was written off in 1992.


                                       79

<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 7.
ACCRUED EXPENSES


Accrued expenses consisted of the following:

                                                 November 25      November 26
                                                        1994             1993
                                                ------------     ------------
   Royalties                                    $     10,824     $     10,388
   Accrued compensation and benefits                  17,039           17,005
   Sales and marketing allowances                     19,445           12,466
   Miscellaneous accrued expenses                     31,692           19,255
                                                ------------     ------------
                                                $     79,000     $     59,114
                                                ------------     ------------
                                                ------------     ------------



                                       80

<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                   (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8.
ACCRUED RESTRUCTURING COSTS


On August 31, 1994, the Company merged with Aldus, described in "Note 2 --
Merger with Aldus Corporation," and initiated a plan to combine the operations
of the two companies. On this date, the Company recorded a $72.2 million charge
to operating expenses related to the merger transaction and restructuring costs.

Merger transaction costs consist principally of transaction fees for investment
bankers, attorneys, accountants, financial printing and other related
charges. Restructuring costs include the elimination of redundant information
systems and equipment, severance and outplacement of terminated employees, the
write-off of certain assets related to product lines to be divested or
eliminated, and cancellation of certain contractual agreements.

The merger transaction and restructuring costs are summarized below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                             Provision    Period from Acquisition
                           Recorded at       to November 25, 1994  Accrued as of
                           Acquisition                       Cash   November 25
                                  Date   Write-offs      Payments          1994
                           ------------ ------------  ------------ ------------
  <S>                      <C>          <C>           <C>          <C>
  Merger transaction
    costs                  $     14,618 $         --  $      8,755 $      5,863
  Restructuring costs:
   Severance and
    outplacement                 20,784           --         9,236       11,548
   Redundant
    information
    systems and
    equipment                    10,778       10,778            --           --
   Assets associated
    with duplicate
    product lines                14,957       14,957            --           --
   Cancellation of
    facility leases and
    other contracts              11,046           --            --       11,046
                           ------------ ------------  ------------ ------------
                           $     72,183 $     25,735  $     17,991 $     28,457
                           ------------ ------------  ------------ ------------
                           ------------ ------------  ------------ ------------
</TABLE>


                                       81

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 8.
ACCRUED RESTRUCTURING COSTS (CONTINUED)


The nature, timing and extent of restructuring costs follows:

SEVERANCE AND OUTPLACEMENT

As a result of the merger, certain technical support, customer service,
distribution and administrative functions were combined and reduced.
Restructuring included severance and outplacement charges related to
approximately 500 terminated employees. Affected employees had received
notification of their termination by September 9, 1994, and final assignments
are expected to be completed during the first quarter of 1995.

REDUNDANT INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT

To facilitate the operations of the Company, the combined organization migrated
to a common management information system, which resulted in the write-off of
the book value of the abandoned systems. The sale or disposal of duplicate
information systems and equipment was completed in the fourth quarter of 1994.

ASSETS ASSOCIATED WITH DUPLICATE PRODUCT LINES

As a condition of the merger, the Company will no longer (after January 1995)
sell and distribute FreeHand, the illustration program previously sold and
distributed by Aldus. In addition, PhotoStyler, an image and video editing
software tool, was discontinued in the fourth quarter of 1994, as the product
competed with certain existing products of the Company. The respective
inventories and capitalized software development costs and technologies of these
duplicate product lines were written off in the fourth quarter of 1994.

CANCELLATION OF FACILITY LEASES AND OTHER CONTRACTS

The Company plans to consolidate duplicate offices in Europe, Japan, Canada and
the United States. Lease and third-party contract termination payments,
resulting from the planned closure of these facilities, are expected to continue
through the lease term or negotiated early termination date, if applicable.

                                               82

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9.
INCOME TAXES


Income before income taxes includes net income (loss) from foreign operations of
approximately $(10.5) million, $13.5 million and $3.5 million for the years
ended November 25, 1994, November 26, 1993, and November 27, 1992, respectively.

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             Years Ended
                                 ---------------------------------------
                                  November 25  November 26   November 27
                                         1994         1993          1992
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
 <S>                             <C>          <C>           <C>
 Current:
   United States federal         $     21,776 $     14,400  $     18,667
   Foreign                              7,579        8,714         7,248
   State and local                      7,120        6,445         6,138
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
 Total current                         36,475       29,559        32,053
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
 Deferred:
   United States federal              (11,525)      (1,926)       (7,954)
   Foreign                             (1,785)         964            18
   State and local                     (1,895)        (216)       (1,603)
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
 Total deferred                       (15,205)      (1,178)       (9,539)
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
 Charge in lieu of taxes
   attributable
   to employee stock plans             12,418       10,134         6,545
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
                                 $     33,688 $     38,515  $     29,059
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
                                 ------------ ------------  ------------
</TABLE>

                                               83

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9.
INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)


Total income tax expense differs from the expected tax expense (computed by
multiplying the United States federal statutory rate of approximately 35
percent for 1994 and 1993, and 34 percent for 1992, to income before income
taxes) as a result of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           Years Ended
                                                      ------------------------------------------------
                                                       November 25       November 26       November 27
                                                              1994              1993              1992
                                                      ------------      ------------      ------------
 <S>                                                  <C>               <C>               <C>
 Computed "expected" tax expense                      $     13,999      $     36,804      $     27,012
 State tax expense, net of federal benefit                   3,396             5,154             3,826
 Nondeductible merger costs                                  5,209                --                --
 Nondeductible write-off of acquired
   in-process research and development                       7,216               489               245
 Tax credits                                                (1,755)           (3,433)           (3,344)
 Foreign losses, not benefited                               3,550               676               462
 Foreign tax rate differential                               2,018                --                --
 Other, net                                                     55            (1,175)              858
                                                      ------------      ------------      ------------
                                                      $     33,688      $     38,515      $     29,059
                                                      ------------      ------------      ------------
                                                      ------------      ------------      ------------
</TABLE>

                                               84

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 9.
INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)


The tax effects of the temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as of 1994 and
1993 are presented below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                               November 25   November 26
                                                      1994          1993
                                              ------------  ------------
 <S>                                          <C>           <C>
 Deferred tax assets:
   Acquired technology                        $      3,306  $      1,428
   Reserves and deferred revenue                    17,515        10,599
   Depreciation                                      2,438         1,982
   Foreign operating loss carryforwards              5,130         2,678
   Tax credits and other carryforwards               4,088         3,777
   Other                                             1,285         3,657
                                              ------------  ------------
    Total gross deferred tax assets                 33,762        24,121
    Deferred tax asset valuation allowance          (5,130)       (2,678)
                                              ------------  ------------
    Total deferred tax assets                       28,632        21,443
                                              ------------  ------------
 Deferred tax liabilities:
   Basis difference of acquired assets                (694)          (35)
   Capitalized costs                                (1,297)       (7,270)
   Other                                              (204)       (1,006)
                                              ------------  ------------
    Total deferred tax liabilities                  (2,195)       (8,311)
                                              ------------  ------------
 Net deferred tax assets                      $     26,437  $     13,132
                                              ------------  ------------
                                              ------------  ------------
</TABLE>

As of November 25, 1994, the Company had United States tax credit carryforwards
of approximately $4 million, which expire in years 1997 through 2008. The
carryforwards are attributable to the premerger years of Aldus and are subject
to certain limitations on usage. The Company also has foreign operating loss
carryovers in various jurisdictions of approximately $13.5 million with various
expiration dates. For financial reporting purposes, a valuation allowance has
been established to fully offset the deferred tax assets related to foreign
operating losses due to uncertainties in utilizing these losses. The increase in
the valuation allowance in 1994 resulted from foreign losses for which no tax
benefit has been recognized.

                                               85

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 10.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS


STOCK OPTION PLAN

As of November 25, 1994, the Company had reserved 20,000,000 shares of common
stock for issuance under its Stock Option Plan.

Each option assumed by Adobe under the Merger Agreement will continue to have,
and be subject to, the same terms and conditions set forth in the relevant Stock
Option Plan. The Aldus plan provided for the granting of stock options to
employees and officers at the fair market value at the grant date. Options vest
at 20 percent after the first year and ratably each month for the next four
years.

The Adobe plan provides for the granting of stock options to employees and
officers at the fair market value of the Company's common stock at the grant
date. Options generally vest over three years: 25 percent after the first year,
and the remainder ratably each month for the next two years so that the options
are 50 percent vested after the second year and fully vested after the third
year. All options have a five-, seven-, or ten-year term. Stock option activity
for 1992, 1993 and 1994 is presented on the following page.

                                               86

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 10.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)


STOCK OPTION PLAN (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                            Options Outstanding
                                                     Options      ------------------------------
                                                   Available            Number             Price
                                                   for Grant         of Shares         per Share
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 <S>                                            <C>               <C>               <C>
 Balances as of November 29, 1991                  5,093,694         8,396,826       $0.02-49.00
 Options granted                                  (4,813,516)        4,813,516       10.25-33.88
 Options exercised                                        --          (972,271)       0.02-24.75
 Options cancelled                                 3,117,067        (3,117,067)       0.58-49.00
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 Balances as of November 27, 1992                  3,397,245         9,121,004        0.02-47.25

 Additional shares reserved                        4,500,000                --                --
 Options granted                                  (3,278,018)        3,278,018        2.17-33.75
 Options exercised                                        --        (1,366,387)       0.02-27.25
 Options cancelled                                   741,861          (741,861)       0.58-37.87
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 Balances as of November 26, 1993                  5,361,088        10,290,774        0.06-47.25

 Options granted                                  (2,246,430)        2,246,430       17.25-36.38
 Options exercised                                        --        (2,331,438)       0.06-33.75
 Options cancelled                                   788,482          (788,482)       0.58-33.75
 Adjustment for change in Aldus
   Corporation fiscal year-end                       142,314           (51,421)               --
 Aldus options retired                              (968,713)               --                --
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 Balances as of November 25, 1994                  3,076,741         9,365,863      $ 0.25-47.25
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------

</TABLE>

Of the options outstanding, 5,570,349 were exercisable as of November 25, 1994.

                                               87

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 10.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)


RESTRICTED STOCK OPTION PLAN

The Company's Restricted Stock Option Plan provides for the granting of
nonqualified stock options to nonemployee directors and consultants.  Option
grants are limited to 7,500 shares per person in each fiscal year and are
immediately exercisable within a ten-year term. Options generally vest over
three years: 25 percent in each of the first two years and 50 percent in the
third year. Stock option activity for 1992, 1993 and 1994 is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                             Options Outstanding
                                                     Options      ------------------------------
                                                   Available            Number             Price
                                                   for Grant         of Shares         per Share
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 <S>                                            <C>               <C>               <C>
 Balances as of November 29, 1991                     82,500            95,000      $ 4.13-27.00
 Options granted                                    (50,000)            50,000       14.06-21.56
 Options exercised                                        --           (5,000)             11.13
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 Balances as of November 27, 1992                     32,500           140,000        4.13-27.00

 Options granted                                    (40,000)            40,000             23.94
 Options exercised                                        --           (5,000)             11.13
 Options cancelled                                    20,000          (20,000)       21.56-27.00
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 Balances as of November 26, 1993                     12,500           155,000        4.13-27.00

 Additional shares reserved                           50,000                --                --
 Options granted                                    (45,000)            45,000       21.88-31.75
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
 Balances as of November 25, 1994                     17,500           200,000      $ 4.13-31.75
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
                                                ------------      ------------      ------------
</TABLE>

All options outstanding were exercisable as of November 25, 1994 under the
Restricted Stock Option Plan. In addition, 95,375 outstanding options under the
Aldus Restricted Stock Option Plan were assumed by Adobe, of which all shares
are outstanding and exercisable as of November 25, 1994, at prices ranging from
$13.75 to $47.25 per share.

                                               88

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 10.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)


PERFORMANCE AND RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN

The Company's Performance and Restricted Stock Plan is an amendment and
restatement of the Restricted Stock Plan. In August 1994, shareholders approved
an amendment to increase the number of shares authorized for issuance from
1,000,000 to 1,500,000. The Performance and Restricted Stock Plan provides for
the granting of restricted stock and/or performance units to officers and key
employees. Shares issued under this plan vest annually over three years but are
considered outstanding at the time of grant, as the shareholders are entitled to
dividends and voting rights. Performance units issued under this plan would
entitle the recipient to receive shares upon completion of the performance
period subject to attaining identified performance goals. As of November 25,
1994, 702,192 shares were outstanding under this plan, of which 101,787 were not
yet vested. As of November 25, 1994, no performance units had been issued.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

Under the terms of the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, eligible employee
participants may purchase shares of the Company's common stock semiannually at
85 percent of the market price, on either the purchase date or the offering
date, whichever price is lower. In April 1994, shareholders approved an
amendment to increase the number of shares authorized for issuance under the
plan from 2,000,000 to 4,000,000.

PRETAX SAVINGS PLAN

In 1987, the Company adopted an Employee Investment Plan, qualified under
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, which is a pretax savings plan
covering substantially all of the Company's United States employees. Under the
plan, eligible employees may contribute up to 18 percent of their pretax salary,
subject to certain limitations. There were 841 employees under the plan in 1994
and 720 employees under the plan in 1993. Commencing in 1992, the Company
matched a portion of employee contributions. Company matching contributions,
which can be terminated at the Company's discretion, were $0.7 million and $0.6
million in 1994 and 1993, respectively. No matching contributions were made to
the plan in 1992.

                                               89

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 11.
CAPITAL STOCK


SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

The Company's Shareholder Rights Plan is intended to protect shareholders from
unfair or coercive takeover practices. In accordance with this plan, the Board
of Directors declared a dividend distribution of one common stock purchase right
on each outstanding share of its common stock held as of July 24, 1990. Each
right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company a share of
common stock at $230. The rights become exercisable in the following
circumstances:

   *  The rights become exercisable ten days after a public announcement by
      another entity that it has acquired beneficial ownership of 20 percent
      or more of the shares (and that is without the approval of the Board
      of Directors) or, if earlier, a public announcement of another
      entity's intention to commence a tender offer to acquire beneficial
      ownership of 20 percent or more of the shares.

   *  The rights become exercisable if another entity engages in certain
      self-dealing transactions with the Company or becomes the beneficial
      owner of 20 percent or more of the shares.

   *  The rights become exercisable if the Company is acquired by any person
      in a merger or business combination transaction, or if 50 percent or
      more of the Company's assets or earnings powers are being sold to
      another entity.

The rights are redeemable by the Company prior to exercise at $0.01 per right
and expire on July 24, 2000.

PUT WARRANTS

In a series of private placements in 1994 and 1993, the Company sold put
warrants entitling the holder of each warrant to sell one share of common stock
to the Company at a specified price. The Company received $719,000 and $694,000
for the sale of put warrants in 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The Company's $6.9 million potential buyback obligation, as of November 26,
1993, was removed from shareholders' equity and recorded as put warrants. At the
prevailing market prices for the Company's common stock, there was no dilutive
effect on earnings per share in 1993. No put warrants were outstanding as of
November 25, 1994.

                                               90

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 11.
CAPITAL STOCK (CONTINUED)


STOCK SPLIT

On July 9, 1993, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a two-for-one
split of the Company's common stock, payable in the form of a stock dividend.
The shares were distributed on August 10, 1993, to shareholders of record on
July 27, 1993. The share and per share amounts in the consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the
effects of this split for all periods presented.


NOTE 12.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES


LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company has operating leases for its corporate headquarters, field sales
offices and certain office equipment that expire at various dates through 2001.
Rent expense for  these leases aggregated $14.8 million, $17.0 million and $13.1
million during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. As of November 25, 1994,
future minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as
follows: 1995 -- $15.0 million; 1996 -- $11.5 million; 1997 -- $3.7 million;
1998 -- $1.3 million; 1999 -- $0.9 million; and $4.8 million thereafter.

REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT

In 1994, the Company entered into a real estate development agreement for the
construction of an office facility and in 1996 will enter into an operating
lease agreement for this facility. The Company will have the option to purchase
the facility at the end of the lease term. In the event the Company chooses not
to exercise this option, the Company is obligated to arrange the sale of the
facility to an unrelated party and is required to pay the lessor any difference
between the net sales proceeds and the lessor's net investment in the facility,
in an amount not to exceed that which would preclude classification of the lease
as an operating lease, which is approximately $52.0 million. The Company also is
required, periodically during the construction period, to deposit funds with the
lessor to secure the performance of its obligations under the lease, and as of
November 25, 1994, the Company had deposited approximately $2.3 million in
securities.

                                               91

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 12.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (CONTINUED)


ROYALTIES

The Company has certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and
licensing of certain products. While royalty expense is generally based on a
dollar amount per unit shipped, ranging from $0.25 to $63.00, certain royalties
are based on a percentage, ranging from 0.2 percent to 20 percent, of the
underlying revenue. Royalty expense was approximately $34.8 million, $32.4
million and $32.5 million for the years ended November 25, 1994, November 26,
1993, and November 27, 1992, respectively.

LEGAL ACTIONS

The Company is engaged in certain legal actions arising in the ordinary course
of business. The Company believes it has adequate legal defenses and believes
that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material effect on
the Company's financial position and results of operations.


NOTE 13.
TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES


The Company holds a 10 percent equity interest in McQueen Holdings Limited
("McQueen") and accounts for the investment at cost. During 1994, the Company
entered into various agreements with McQueen, whereby the Company has contracted
with McQueen to perform printing, assembly and warehousing services, and has
agreed to guarantee obligations under operating leases for certain facilities
utilized by McQueen and to guarantee a certain level of business between the
Company and McQueen. The remaining aggregate contingent liability for nonpayment
of rent, through September 1999, for facilities occupied by McQueen was
approximately $2.3 million, and minimum monthly payments Adobe will make to
McQueen for certain services, over the next three years, are approximately $15.8
million. Purchases from McQueen amounted to $13.0 million, $12.6 million and
$11.0 million during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

                                               92

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 14.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS


The Company's cash equivalents and short-term investments are carried at fair
value, based on quoted market prices for these or similar investments. For other
investments, included in miscellaneous other assets, the estimated fair value is
determined using available market information or other appropriate valuation
methodologies, and the carrying amount of these investments approximates fair
value.

Put warrants outstanding as of November 26, 1993 are carried at the maximum
amount required to settle the potential obligations under the terms of the put
warrants. The fair value of the put warrants is not practically determinable,
because it fluctuates based on the Company's stock price and at any point in
time could be less than the carrying amount.


NOTE 15.
INDUSTRY SEGMENT REPORTING AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS


Adobe and its subsidiaries operate in one dominant industry segment. The Company
is engaged principally in the design, development, manufacture and licensing of
computer software. No customer accounted for more than 10 percent of the
Company's total revenue in 1994, 1993 or 1992.

The Americas operations include revenue and results of operations in North
America, South America, Mexico and Latin America, as well as licensing revenue
recognized on a worldwide basis. Licensing revenue is not available on a
geographic basis, because the source of licensing revenue is known only by the
OEMs' headquarters, and not necessarily by the geographic region providing the
revenue stream to the OEMs. Accordingly, all licensing revenue is included in
The Americas. European operations primarily include subsidiaries in the
Netherlands, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden, while Pacific Rim
operations include subsidiaries in Japan and Australia. Transfers between
subsidiaries are accounted for at amounts that are generally above cost and
consistent with rules and regulations of governing tax authorities. Such
transfers are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. Identifiable
assets are those assets that can be directly associated with a particular
geographic area and subsidiary. Geographic information for each of the years in
the three-year period ended November 25, 1994 is presented on the following
page.

                                               93

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AND PER SHARE DATA)
                                           (CONTINUED)

NOTE 15.
INDUSTRY SEGMENT REPORTING AND FOREIGN OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                             YEARS ENDED
                                  --------------------------------------
                                   November 25  November 26  November 27
                                          1994        1993          1992
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
 <S>                              <C>           <C>         <C>
 Revenue:
   The Americas                   $    430,770  $  386,156  $    350,486
   Europe                              108,903     107,582        92,147
   Pacific Rim                          72,036      51,495        30,557
   Eliminations                        (13,937)    (24,996)      (33,127)
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
                                  $    597,772  $  520,237  $    440,063
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------

 Operating income:
   The Americas                   $     (1,847) $   64,719  $     70,345
   Europe                                   53      22,361        16,539
   Pacific Rim                          32,745      21,645        11,010
   Eliminations                             34     (16,494)      (23,428)
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
                                  $     30,985  $   92,231  $     74,466
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------

 Identifiable assets:
   The Americas                   $    591,625  $  608,636  $    417,800
   Europe                               53,944      46,205        51,885
   Pacific Rim                          18,633       9,885         8,067
   Eliminations                        (38,699)   (134,886)      (40,129)
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
                                  $    625,503  $  529,840  $    437,623
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
                                  ------------  ----------  ------------
</TABLE>


                                               94
<PAGE>

                REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders
Adobe Systems Incorporated

We have audited the balance sheet of Aldus Corporation as of December 31, 1993,
and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1993 (not
presented separately herein). These financial statements are the responsibility
of Aldus' management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statments referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the consolidated financial position of Aldus Corporation at
December 31, 1993, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash
flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 1993, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                   Ernst & Young LLP



Seattle, Washington
January 28, 1994

                                               95

<PAGE>

                                  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

As required under Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, the
financial statement schedule of the Company is provided in this separate
section. The financial statement schedule included in this section is as
follows:


                                                                 Sequentially
Schedule                                                             Numbered
Number         Financial Statement Schedule Description                  Page
- - -------------  --------------------------------------------      ------------
Schedule II    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts                       97


                                               96

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                           SCHEDULE II

                               VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                         (IN THOUSANDS)

                   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS WHICH ARE DEDUCTED IN THE
                        BALANCE SHEET FROM THE ASSETS TO WHICH THEY APPLY
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Additions
                                     ---------------------
                         Balance at  Charged to Charged to               Balance at
                          Beginning   Operating      Other                      End
                          of Period    Expenses   Accounts  Deductions    of Period
                         ----------  ---------- ----------  ---------- ------------
<S>                      <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>        <C>
Allowance for doubtful
accounts:
 Year Ended:
  November 25, 1994          $ 2,321   $  1,518   $ --      $    586   $      3,253
  November 26, 1993            1,916      1,842     --         1,437          2,321
  November 27, 1992            1,963        862     --           909          1,916
</TABLE>

Deductions related to the allowance for doubtful accounts, represent amounts
written off against the allowance.



SEE ACCOMPANYING INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT.


                                               97

<PAGE>

                                            EXHIBITS

As required under Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
on Form 8-K, the exhibits filed as part of this report are provided in this
separate section. The exhibits included in this section are as follows:

                                                                   Sequentially
Exhibit                                                                Numbered
Number         Exhibit Description                                         Page
- - -----------    --------------------------------------------------  ------------
3.2.6          Restated Bylaws                                              99
10.32          Sublease of the Land and Lease of the Improvements           126
               By and Between Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance
               Inc. and Adobe Systems Incorporated
11             Computation of Earnings per Common Share                     193
21             Subsidiaries of the Registrant                               194
23             Consent of Independent Auditors                              195
23.1           Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors           196
27             Financial Data Schedule                                      197

                                               98
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3.2.6
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      Ex-3.2.6

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                  EXHIBIT 3.2.6

                                 RESTATED BYLAWS


                                       99

<PAGE>

                                     RESTATED

                                     BY-LAWS

                                       OF

                            ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED


                                       100

<PAGE>

                                     INDEX

SECTION                                                                  PAGE

                                    ARTICLE I
                                     OFFICES

1.1   Principal Executive Office........................................   1
1.2   Other Offices.....................................................   1


                                   ARTICLE II
                             MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS

2.1   Place of Meetings................................................    1
2.2   Annual Meetings..................................................    1
2.3   Special Meetings.................................................    2
2.4   Notice of Meetings or Reports....................................    2
2.5   Adjourned Meetings and Notice Thereof............................    3
2.6   Voting...........................................................    3
2.7   Quorum...........................................................    3
2.8   Consent of Absentees.............................................    4
2.9   Action Without Meeting...........................................    4
2.10  Proxies..........................................................    5
2.11  Regulation of Conduct of Shareholder Meetings....................    5
2.12  Advance Notice of Shareholder Proposals and Directors
      Nominations......................................................    6

                                   ARTICLE III
                                    DIRECTORS

3.1   Powers...........................................................    7
3.2   Number of Directors..............................................    7
3.3   Election, Term of Office and Vacancies...........................    7
3.4   Resignation......................................................    8
3.5   Removal..........................................................    8


                                     101

<PAGE>

3.6   Organization Meeting.............................................    8
3.7   Other Regular Meetings...........................................    9
3.8   Called Meetings..................................................    9
3.9   Place of Meetings................................................    9
3.10  Telephonic Meetings..............................................    9
3.11  Notice of Special Meetings.......................................    9
3.12  Waiver of Notice.................................................    10
3.13  Action Without Meeting...........................................    10
3.14  Quorum...........................................................    10
3.15  Adjournment......................................................    10
3.16  Inspection Rights................................................    11
3.17  Fees and Compensation............................................    11

                                   ARTICLE IV
                    EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND OTHER COMMITTEES

4.1   Executive Committee..............................................    11
4.2   Other Committees.................................................    11
4.3   Minutes and Reports..............................................    12
4.4   Meetings.........................................................    12
4.5   Term of Office of Committee Members..............................    12


                                    ARTICLE V
                                    OFFICERS

5.1   Officers.........................................................    12
5.2   Election.........................................................    13
5.3   Subordinate Officers, etc........................................    13
5.4   Removal and Resignation..........................................    13
5.5   Vacancies........................................................    13
5.6   Chairman of the Board............................................    13
5.7   President........................................................    14
5.8   Vice President...................................................    14
5.9   Secretary........................................................    14


                                     102
<PAGE>


5.10  Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer............................    15
5.11  Assistant Secretary..............................................    15
5.12  Compensation.....................................................    15


                                   ARTICLE VI
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

6.1   Record Date......................................................    15
6.2   Inspection of Corporate Records..................................    16
6.3   Execution of Corporate Instruments...............................    16
6.4   Ratification by Shareholders.....................................    17
6.5   Annual Report....................................................    17
6.6   Representation of Shares of Other Corporations...................    17
6.7   Inspection of By-Laws............................................    18


                                   ARTICLE VII
                                 SHARES OF STOCK

7.1   Form of Certificates.............................................    18
7.2   Transfer of Shares...............................................    18
7.3   Lost Certificates................................................    18
7.4   Employee Stock Purchase Plan.....................................    19


                                  ARTICLE VIII
                    INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

8.1   Indemnification by Corporation...................................    19
8.2   Advancing Expenses...............................................    19
8.3   Non-Exclusivity of Rights........................................    19
8.4   Indemnification Contracts........................................    20
8.5   Insurance........................................................    20
8.6   Effect of Amendment..............................................    20


                                     103
<PAGE>


                                   ARTICLE IX
                                   AMENDMENTS

9.1   Power of Shareholders............................................    20
9.2   Power of Directors...............................................    20


                                     104


<PAGE>

                                     BY-LAWS

                                       OF

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED



                                    ARTICLE 1

                                     OFFICES


     SECTION 1.1    PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICE.

          The principal executive office for the transaction of business of the
corporation is hereby fixed and located at 1585 Charleston Road, Mountain View,
County of Santa Clara, State of California.  The Board of Directors is hereby
granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one
location to another.

     SECTION 1.2    OTHER OFFICES.

          Branch or subordinate offices may at any time be established by the
Board of Directors at any place or places where the corporation is qualified to
do business.


                                   ARTICLE II

                            MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS

     SECTION 2.1    PLACE OF MEETINGS.

          All meetings of shareholders shall be held either at the principal
executive office or at any other place within or without the State of California
which may be designated either by the Board of Directors or by the written
consent of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote thereat as determined
pursuant to Section 6.1 of these By-Laws given either before or after the
meeting.

     SECTION 2.2    ANNUAL MEETINGS.

          The annual meetings of shareholders shall be held on such day and at
such hour as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.  At such meeting, Directors
shall be elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.


                                       105

<PAGE>

     SECTION 2.3    SPECIAL MEETINGS.

          Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the
Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President, or by the holders
of shares entitled to cast not less than ten percent (10%) of the votes at the
meeting.  Notice of such special meeting shall be given in the same manner as
for the annual meeting of shareholders.  Notices of any special meetings shall
specify in addition to the place, date and hour of such meeting, the general
nature of the business to be transacted thereat.

     SECTION 2.4    NOTICE OF MEETINGS OR REPORTS.

          Written notice of each meeting of shareholders shall be given not less
than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting
to each shareholder entitled to vote thereat.  Such notice shall be given either
personally or by mail or other means of written communication, addressed or
delivered to each shareholder entitled to vote at such meeting at the address of
such shareholder appearing on the books of the corporation or given by him to
the corporation for the purpose of such notice.  If no such address appears or
is given, notice shall be given either personally or by mail or other means of
written communication addressed to the shareholder at the place where the
principal executive office of the corporation is located, or by publication at
least once in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which said
office is located.  The notice shall be deemed to have been given at the time
when delivered personally or deposited in the mail or sent by other means of
written communication.

          The same procedure for the giving of notice shall apply to the giving
of any report to shareholders.

          All such notices shall state the place, the date and the hour of such
meeting, and shall state such matters, if any, as may be expressly required by
the California Corporations Code.

          Upon request by any person or persons entitled to call a special
meeting, the Chairman of the Board, President, Vice President or Secretary shall
within twenty (20) days after receipt of the request cause notice to be given to
the shareholders entitled to vote that a special meeting will be held at a time
requested by the person or persons calling the meeting, but not less than
thirty-five (35) nor more than sixty (60) days after receipt of the request.

          All other notices shall be sent by the Secretary or an Assistant
Secretary, or if there be no such officer, or in the case of his neglect or
refusal to act, by any other officer, or by persons calling the meeting.


                                       106
<PAGE>

     SECTION 2.5    ADJOURNED MEETINGS AND NOTICE THEREOF.

          Any shareholders' meeting, annual or special, whether or not a quorum
is present, may be adjourned from time to time by the vote of a majority of the
shares, represented either in person or by proxy, but in the absence of a
quorum, no other business may be transacted at such meeting, except as provided
in Section 2.7 of these By-Laws.

          When a shareholders' meeting is adjourned to another time or place,
notice of the adjourned meeting need not be given if the time and place thereof
are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken; except that if
the adjournment is for more than forty-five (45) days or if after the
adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the
adjourned meeting shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote
thereat.

          At the adjourned meeting, the corporation may transact any business
which might have been transacted at the original meeting.

     SECTION 2.6    VOTING.

          Except as provided below or as otherwise provided by the Articles of
Incorporation or By-Laws, a shareholder shall be entitled to one vote for each
share held of record on the record date fixed for the determination of the
shareholders entitled to vote at a meeting or, if no such date is fixed, the
date determined in accordance with law.  Upon the demand of any shareholder made
at a meeting before the voting begins, the election of directors shall be by
ballot.  No shareholder will be permitted to cumulate votes at any election of
directors.

          Any holder of shares entitled to vote on any matter may vote part of
the shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting the remaining shares
or vote them against the proposal, other than elections to office, but, if the
shareholder fails to specify the number of shares such shareholder is voting
affirmatively, it shall be conclusively presumed that the shareholder's
approving vote is with respect to all shares said shareholder is entitled to
vote.

     SECTION 2.7    QUORUM.

          A majority of the shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by
proxy, shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of shareholders.  If a quorum is
present, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at the
meeting and entitled to vote on any matter shall be the act of the shareholders,
unless otherwise required by the Articles of Incorporation.


                                       107




<PAGE>

          The shareholders present at a duly called or held meeting at which a
quorum is present may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding
the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum, if any action
taken (other than adjournment) is approved by at least a majority of the shares
required to constitute a quorum.

     SECTION 2.8    CONSENT OF ABSENTEES.

          The transactions of any meeting of shareholders, if not duly called
and noticed, and wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a meeting
duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum is present either in person
or by proxy, and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the
shareholders entitled to vote, not present in person or by proxy, signs a
written waiver of notice, or a consent to the holding of such meeting, or an
approval of the minutes thereof.  All such waivers, consents, or approvals shall
be filed with the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the
meeting.

          Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of
notice of such meeting, except when a person objects, at the beginning of the
meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully
called or convened; provided, that attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of
any right to object to the consideration of matters required by law or these By-
Laws to be included in the notice but not so included if such objection is
expressly made at the meeting.

     SECTION 2.9    ACTION WITHOUT MEETING.

          Any action which may be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be
taken without a meeting and without prior notice, if a consent in writing,
setting forth the actions so taken, shall be signed by the holders of
outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes which would
be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares
entitled to vote thereon were present and voted; provided, that except to fill a
vacancy as provided in Section 3.6 of these By-Laws, Directors may not be
elected by written consent except by unanimous written consent of all shares
entitled to vote for the election of Directors.

          Unless the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have been
solicited in writing, notice of the following actions approved by shareholders
without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those
shareholders entitled to vote who have not consented in writing at least ten
(10) days before the consummation of the action authorized by such approval:


                                       108

<PAGE>

               1.   Approval of a contract or other transaction between the
corporation and one or more of its Directors, or between the corporation and any
corporation, firm or association in which one or more of its Directors has a
material financial interest.

               2.   Approval of any indemnification to be made by the
corporation of a person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a
party to any proceeding by reason of the fact that such person was or is an
agent of the corporation.

               3.   Approval of the principal terms of a reorganization.

               4.   Approval of a plan of distribution of the shares,
obligations or securities of any other corporation, or assets other than money,
which is not in accordance with the liquidation rights of the preferred shares
as specified in the Articles of Incorporation or a Certificate of Determination.

          Unless the consents of all shareholders entitled to vote have been
solicited in writing, prompt notice of the taking of any corporate action not
listed above which is approved by shareholders without a meeting by less than
unanimous written consent, shall be given to those shareholders entitled to vote
who have not consented in writing.

          Such notice shall be given as provided in Section 2.4 of these
By-Laws.

     SECTION 2.10   PROXIES.

          Every person entitled to vote shares may authorize another person or
persons to act by proxy with respect to such shares.  No proxy shall be valid
after the expiration of eleven (11) months from the date thereof unless
otherwise provided in the proxy.

     SECTION 2.11   REGULATION OF CONDUCT OF SHAREHOLDERS MEETINGS

          At every meeting of the shareholders, the Chairman, if there is such
an officer, or if not, the President of the Corporation, or in his absence any
Vice President designated by the President or the Secretary, or in the absence
of the President or any Vice President or the Secretary a Chairman chosen by the
majority of the voting shares represented in person or by proxy, shall act as
Chairman.  The Secretary of the Corporation or a person designated by the
Chairman shall act as Secretary of the meeting.  Unless otherwise approved by
the Chairman, attendance at the Shareholders' Meeting is restricted to
shareholders of record, persons authorized in accordance with Article II of
these By-Laws to act by proxy, and officers of the corporation.


                                       109



<PAGE>

          The Chairman shall call the meeting to order, establish the agenda and
conduct the business of the meeting in accordance therewith or, at the
Chairman's discretion, it may be conducted otherwise in accordance with the
wishes of the shareholders in attendance.

          The Chairman shall also conduct the meeting in an orderly manner, rule
on the precedence of, and procedure on, motions and other procedural matters,
and exercise discretion with respect to such procedural matters with fairness
and good faith toward all those entitled to take part.  The Chairman may impose
reasonable limits on the amount of time taken up at the meeting on discussion in
general or on remarks by any one shareholder.  Should any person in attendance
become unruly or obstruct the meeting proceedings, the Chairman shall have the
power to have such person removed from participation.  Notwithstanding anything
in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at a meeting
except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.11.  The
Chairman of a meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the
meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in
accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.11, and if he should so
determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly
brought before the meeting shall not be transacted.

     SECTION 2.12   ADVANCE NOTICE OF SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS AND DIRECTORS
NOMINATIONS

          At an annual or special meeting of the shareholders, only such
business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the
meeting.  To be properly brought before a meeting, business must be (a)
specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at
the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) properly brought before the meeting
by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (c) properly brought before an
annual meeting by a shareholder, or (d) properly brought before a special
meeting by a shareholder, but if, and only if, the notice of a special meeting
provides for business to be brought before the meeting by shareholders.  For
business to be properly brought before a meeting by a shareholder, the
shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of
the Corporation.  To be timely, a shareholder proposal to be presented at an
annual meeting shall be received at the Corporation's principal executive
offices not less than 120 calendar days in advance of the date that the
Corporation's (or the Corporation's predecessor's) proxy statement was released
to shareholders in connection with the previous year's annual meeting of
shareholders, except that if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or
the date of the annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 calendar days
from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement,
or in the event of a special meeting, notice by the shareholder to be timely
must be received not later than the close of


                                       110

<PAGE>

business on the tenth day following the day on which such notice of the date of
the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made.  A shareholder's
notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder
proposes to bring before the annual or special meeting (a) a brief description
of the business desired to be brought before the annual or special meeting and
the reasons for conducting such business at the annual or special meeting, (b)
the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's books, of the
shareholder proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of the
Corporation which are beneficially owned by the shareholder, and (d) any
material interest of the shareholder in such business.


                                   ARTICLE III

                                    DIRECTORS

     SECTION 3.1    POWERS.

          Subject to the limitations stated in the Articles of Incorporation,
these By-Laws, and the California Corporations Code as to actions which shall be
approved by the shareholders or by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
outstanding shares entitled to vote, and subject to the duties of Directors as
prescribed by the California Corporations Code, all corporate powers shall be
exercised by, or under the direction of, and the business and affairs of the
corporation shall be managed by, the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 3.2    NUMBER OF DIRECTORS.

          The authorized number of Directors of the corporation shall not be
less than four (4) nor more than eight (8) and the exact number of Directors
authorized shall be eight (8).  The exact number of Directors may be fixed
within the limits specified in this Section 3.2 by a By-Law duly adopted by the
shareholders or by resolution of the Board of Directors.  The minimum or maximum
number of Directors provided in this Section 3.2 may be changed or a definite
number fixed without provision for an indefinite number, by a By-Law duly
adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled
to vote.

     SECTION 3.3    ELECTION, TERM OF OFFICE AND VACANCIES.

          The directors shall be divided into two classes, designated Class I
and Class II, as nearly equal in number as reasonably possible, with any overage
allocated in the discretion of the Board of Directors.  The initial term of
office of the Class I directors will expire at the 1992 annual meeting of
shareholders and the initial term of office of the Class II directors will
expire at the 1993 annual


                                       111


<PAGE>

meeting of shareholders.  At the 1992 annual meeting of shareholders and at each
annual meeting of shareholders thereafter, directors shall be elected, to
succeed directors of the class whose term expires, for a term of office to
expire at the second succeeding annual meeting after their election.  All
directors, including directors elected to fill vacancies, shall hold office
until the expiration of the term for which elected and until their successors
are elected and qualified, except in the case of death, resignation or removal
of any director.  The Board of Directors may declare vacant the office of a
director who has been declared to be of unsound mind by court order or convicted
of a felony.  Vacancies on the Board of Directors not caused by removal may be
filled by a majority of the directors then in office, regardless of whether they
constitute a quorum, or by the sole remaining director.  The shareholders may
elect a director at any time to fill any vacancy not filled, or which cannot be
filled, by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 3.4    RESIGNATION.

          Any Director may resign effective upon giving written notice to the
Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary or the Board of Directors of
the corporation, unless the notice specifies a later time for the effectiveness
of such resignation.  If the resignation is effective at a future time, a
successor may be elected to take office when the resignation becomes effective.

     SECTION 3.5    REMOVAL.

          Except as described below, any or all of the directors may be removed
without cause if such removal is approved by the affirmative vote of the
majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote.  No director may be removed
if the votes cast against removal, or not consenting in writing to removal,
would be sufficient to elect a director if voted cumulatively at an election at
which (i) the same total number of votes were cast (or, if removal is sought
through action by written consent, all shares entitled to vote were voted) and
(ii) either the number of directors elected at the most recent annual meeting of
shareholders, or if greater, the number of directors for whom removal is being
sought, were then being elected.

     SECTION 3.6    ORGANIZATION MEETING.

          Immediately after each annual meeting of shareholders, the Board of
Directors shall hold a regular meeting for the purpose of organization, the
election of officers and the transaction of other business.  No notice of such
meeting need be given.


                                       112
<PAGE>


     SECTION 3.7    OTHER REGULAR MEETINGS.

          The Board of Directors may provide by resolution the time and place
for the holding of regular meetings of the Board; provided, however, that if the
date so designated falls upon a legal holiday, then the meeting shall be held at
the same time and place on the next succeeding day which is not a legal holiday.
No notice of such regular meetings of the Board need be given.

     SECTION 3.8    CALLING MEETINGS.

          Meetings of the Board of Directors for any purpose or purposes shall
be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the
Secretary or any two Directors of the corporation.

     SECTION 3.9    PLACE OF MEETINGS.

          Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at any place within
or without the State of California which may be designated in the notice of the
meeting, or, if not stated in the notice or there is no notice, designated by
resolution of the Board.  In the absence of such designation, meetings of the
Board of Directors shall be held at the principal executive office of the
corporation.

     SECTION 3.10   TELEPHONIC MEETINGS.

          Members of the Board may participate in a regular or special meeting
through use of conference telephone or similar communications equipment, so long
as all members participating in such meeting can hear one another.
Participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 3.10 constitutes presence in
person at such meeting.

     SECTION 3.11 NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS.

          Written notice of the time and place of special meetings of the
Board of Directors shall be delivered personally to each Director, or sent
to each Director by mail, telephone, telegraph or electronic transmission.
In case such notice is sent by mail, it shall be deposited in the United
States mail at least four (4) days prior to the time of the holding of the
meeting.  In case such notice is delivered personally, or by telephone,
telegraph or electronic transmission, it shall be so delivered at least
twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time of the holding of the meeting.
Such notice may be given by the Secretary of the corporation or by the
persons who called said meeting.  Such notice need not specify the purpose
of the meeting, and


                                       113
<PAGE>


notice shall not be necessary if appropriate waivers, consents and/or
approvals are filed in accordance with Section 3.12 of these By-Laws.

     SECTION 3.12   WAIVER OF NOTICE.

          Notice of a meeting need not be given to any Director who signs a
waiver of notice, whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the
meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of
notice to such Director.

          The transactions of any meeting of the Board of Directors, however
called and noticed or wherever held, shall be as valid as though had at a
meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum is present and if,
either before or after the meeting, each of the Directors not present signs a
written waiver of notice, a consent to holding the meeting or an approval of the
minutes thereof.  All such waivers, consents and approvals shall be filed with
the corporate records or made a part of the minutes of the meeting.

     SECTION 3.13   ACTION WITHOUT MEETING.

          Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors
may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board shall individually
or collectively consent in writing to such action.  Such written consent or
consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board.  Such
action by written consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous
vote of such Directors.

     SECTION 3.14   QUORUM.

          A majority of the authorized number of Directors shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business.  Every act or decision done or made by a
majority of the Directors present at a meeting duly held at which a quorum is
present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the Articles of
Incorporation, or the California Corporations Code, specifically requires a
greater number.  In the absence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board of
Directors, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting as
provided in Section 3.15 of these By-Laws.  A meeting at which a quorum is
initially present may continue to transact business, notwithstanding the
withdrawal of enough Directors to leave less than a quorum, if any action taken
is approved by at least a majority of the required quorum for such meeting.

     SECTION 3.15   ADJOURNMENT.

          Any meeting of the Board of Directors, whether or not a quorum is
present, may be adjourned to another time and place by the vote of a majority of


                                       114


<PAGE>


the Directors present.  Notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting
need not be given to absent Directors if said time and place are fixed at the
meeting adjourned.

     SECTION 3.16   INSPECTION RIGHTS.

          Every Director shall have the absolute right at any time to inspect,
copy and make extra copies of, in person or by agent or attorney, all books,
records and documents of every kind and to inspect the physical properties of
the corporation.

     SECTION 3.17   FEES AND COMPENSATION.

          Directors shall not receive any stated salary for their services as
Directors; however, by resolution of the Board, non-employee Directors may
receive a fixed annual retainer for their services as Directors, as well as a
fixed fee, with or without expenses of attendance, for attendance at each Board
meeting, and each Board Committee meeting.  Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to preclude any Director from serving the corporation in any other
capacity as an officer, agent, employee, or otherwise, and receiving
compensation therefor.


                                   ARTICLE IV

                    EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND OTHER COMMITTEES

     SECTION 4.1    EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.

          The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the
authorized number of Directors, appoint an executive committee, consisting of
two or more Directors.  The Board may designate one or more Directors as an
alternate member of such committee, who may replace any absent member of any
meeting of the committee.  The executive committee, subject to any limitations
imposed by the California Corporations Code, or by resolution adopted by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the authorized number of Directors, or imposed
by the Articles of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, shall have and may
exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 4.2    OTHER COMMITTEES.

          The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the
authorized number of Directors, designate such other committees, each consisting
of two or more Directors, as it may from time to time deem advisable to perform
such general or special duties as may from time to time be delegated


                                       115

<PAGE>


to any such committee by the Board of Directors, subject to the limitations
contained in the California Corporations Code, or imposed by the Articles of
Incorporation or by these By-Laws.  The Board may designate one or more
Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent
member at any meeting of the committee.

     SECTION 4.3    MINUTES AND REPORTS.

          Each committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings, which
shall be filed with the Secretary.  All action by any committee shall be
reported to the Board of Directors at the next meeting thereof, and, insofar as
rights of third parties shall not be affected thereby, shall be subject to
revision and alteration by the Board of Directors.

     SECTION 4.4    MEETINGS.

          Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws or by resolution of the
Board of Directors, each committee shall adopt its own rules governing the time
and place of holding and the method of calling its meetings and the conduct of
its proceedings and shall meet as provided by such rules, and it shall also meet
at the call of any member of the committee.  Unless otherwise provided by such
rules or by resolution of the Board of Directors, committee meetings shall be
governed by Sections 3.11, 3.12 and 3.13 of these By-Laws.

     SECTION 4.5    TERM OF OFFICE OF COMMITTEE MEMBERS.

          The term of office of any committee member shall be as provided in the
resolution of the Board of Directors designating him but shall not exceed his
term as a Director.  Any member of a committee may be removed at any time by
resolution adopted by Directors holding a majority of the directorships, either
present at a meeting of the Board or by written approval thereof.


                                    ARTICLE V

                                    OFFICERS

     SECTION 5.1    OFFICERS.

          The officers of the corporation shall be a President, a Vice
President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer, who shall be the Chief Financial
Officer of the corporation.  The corporation may also have, at the discretion of
the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, one or more additional Vice
Presidents, one or more Assistant Treasurers, and such other officers as may be
appointed in


                                       116
<PAGE>

accordance with the provisions of Section 5.3.  One person may hold two or more
offices.

     SECTION 5.2    ELECTION.

          The officers of the corporation, except such officers as may be
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Sections 5.3 and 5.5, shall be
chosen annually by the Board of Directors and each shall hold his office until
he shall resign or shall be removed or otherwise disqualified to serve, or his
successor shall be elected and qualified.

     SECTION 5.3    SUBORDINATE OFFICERS, ETC.

          The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers as the business
of the corporation may require, each of whom shall hold office for such period,
have such authority and perform such duties as are provided in these
By-Laws or as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.

     SECTION 5.4    REMOVAL AND RESIGNATION.

          Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by a
majority of the Directors at the time in office, at any regular or special
meeting of the Board, or, except in case of an officer upon whom such power of
removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors.

          Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the
corporation.  Any such resignation shall take effect at the date of the receipt
of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise
specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to
make it effective.

     SECTION 5.5    VACANCIES.

          A vacancy in the office because of death, resignation, removal,
disqualification or any other cause shall be filled in the manner prescribed in
these By-Laws for regular appointments to such office.

     SECTION 5.6    CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD.

          The Chairman of the Board, if there shall be such an officer, shall,
if present, preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors, and exercise and
perform such other powers and duties as may be from time to time assigned to him
by the Board of Directors as prescribed by these By-Laws.


                                       117



<PAGE>


     SECTION 5.7    PRESIDENT.

          Subject to such supervisory powers, if any, as may be given by the
Board of Directors to the Chairman of the Board, if there be such an officer,
the President shall be the general manager and chief executive officer of the
corporation and shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have
general supervision, direction, and control of the business and officers of the
corporation.  He shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders.  He shall be
ex officio a member of all the standing committees, including the executive
committee, if any, and shall have the general powers and duties of management
usually vested in the office of president of a corporation, and shall have other
powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by these
By-Laws.

     SECTION 5.8    VICE PRESIDENT.

          In the absence or disability of the President, the Vice Presidents in
order of their rank as fixed by the Board of Directors, or if not ranked, the
Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform the duties of
the President, and when so acting shall have all the powers of, and be subject
to all the restrictions upon, the President.  The Vice Presidents shall have
such other powers and perform such other duties as from time to time may be
prescribed for them respectively by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws.

     SECTION 5.9    SECRETARY.

          The Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept, a book of minutes in
written form of the proceedings of the Board of Directors, committees of the
Board, and shareholders.  Such minutes shall include all waivers of notice,
consents to the holding of meetings, or approvals of the minutes of meetings
executed pursuant to these By-Laws or the California Corporations Code.  The
Secretary shall keep, or cause to be kept at the principal executive office or
at the  office of the corporation's transfer agent or registrar, a record of its
shareholders, giving the name and addresses of all shareholders and the number
and class of shares held by each.

          The Secretary shall give or cause to be given, notice of all meetings
of the shareholders and of the Board of Directors required by these By-Laws or
by law to be given, and shall keep the seal of the corporation in safe custody,
and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by the Board of Directors or these By-Laws.


                                       118


<PAGE>

     SECTION 5.10   TREASURER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER.

          The Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer shall keep and maintain, or
cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct books and records of
account in written form or any other form capable of being converted into
written form.

          The Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer shall deposit all monies and
other valuables in the name and to the credit of the corporation with such
depositaries as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  He shall disburse
all funds of the corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall
render to the President and Directors, whenever they request it, an account of
all of his transactions as Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer and of the
financial condition of the corporation, and shall have such other powers and
perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or by
these By-Laws.

     SECTION 5.11   ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

          The Assistant Secretary shall have all the powers, and perform all the
duties of, the Secretary in the absence or inability of the Secretary to act.

     SECTION 5.12   COMPENSATION.

          The compensation of the officers shall be fixed from time to time by
the Board of Directors, and no officer shall be prevented from receiving such
compensation by reason of the fact that he is also a Director of the
corporation.


                                   ARTICLE VI

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     SECTION 6.1    RECORD DATE.

          The Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a time in the future as
the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of any
meeting or to vote or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other
distribution or allotment of any rights or entitled to exercise any rights in
respect of any other lawful action.  Shareholders on the record date are
entitled to notice and to vote or receive the dividend, distribution or
allotment of rights or to exercise the rights, as the case may be,
notwithstanding any transfer of any shares in the books of the corporation after
the record date, except as otherwise provided


                                       119
<PAGE>


by law.  Said record date shall not be more than sixty (60) or less than ten
(10) days prior to the date of any such meeting, nor more than sixty (60) days
prior to any other action.

          A determination of shareholders of record entitled to notice of or to
vote at a meeting of shareholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting
unless the Board fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, but the
Board shall fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned for more than
forty-five (45) days from the date set for the original meeting.

          If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date
shall be fixed pursuant to the California Corporations Code.

     SECTION 6.2    INSPECTION OF CORPORATE RECORDS.

          The accounting books and records, and minutes of proceedings of the
shareholders and the Board of Directors and committees of the Board shall be
open to inspection upon written demand made upon the corporation by any
shareholder or the holder of a voting trust certificate, at any reasonable time
during usual business hours, for a purpose reasonably related to his interest as
a shareholder, or as the holder of such voting trust certificate.  The record of
shareholders shall also be open to inspection by any shareholder or holder of a
voting trust certificate at any time during usual business hours upon written
demand on the corporation, for a purpose reasonably related to such holder's
interest as a shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate.  Such
inspection may be made in person or by an agent or attorney, and shall include
the right to copy and to make extracts.

     SECTION 6.3    EXECUTION OF CORPORATE INSTRUMENTS.

          The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, determine the method
and designate the statutory officer or officers, or other person or persons, to
execute any corporate instrument or document, or to sign the corporate name
without limitation, except where otherwise provided by law, and such execution
or signature shall be binding upon the corporation.  Unless otherwise
specifically determined by the Board of Directors, formal contracts of the
corporation, promissory notes, mortgages, evidences of indebtedness, share
certificates, conveyances or other instruments in writing, and any assignment or
endorsement thereof, executed or entered into between the corporation and any
person, shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice
President and the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any
Assistant Treasurer of the corporation.


                                       120

<PAGE>

     SECTION 6.4    RATIFICATION BY SHAREHOLDERS.

          The Board of Directors may, subject to applicable notice requirements,
in its discretion, submit any contract or act for approval or ratification of
the shareholders at any annual meeting of shareholders, or at any special
meeting of shareholders called for that purpose; and any contract or act which
shall be approved or ratified by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
shares entitled to vote represented at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is
present, or by the written consent of shareholders, shall be as valid and
binding upon the corporation and upon the shareholders thereof as though
approved or ratified by each and every shareholder of the corporation, unless a
greater vote is required by law for such purpose.

     SECTION 6.5    ANNUAL REPORT.

          For so long as the corporation has less than 100 holders of record of
its shares, the mandatory requirement of an annual report is hereby expressly
waived.  The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, cause an annual report
to be sent to the shareholders.  Such reports shall contain at least a balance
sheet as of the close of such fiscal year and an income statement and statement
of changes in financial position for such fiscal year, and shall be accompanied
by any report thereon of independent accountants, or if there is no such report,
the certificate of an unauthorized officer of the corporation that such
statements were prepared without audit in the books and records of the
corporation.

          A shareholder or shareholders holding at least five percent (5%) of
the outstanding shares of any class of the corporation may make a written
request to the corporation for an income statement and/or a balance sheet of the
corporation for the three-month, six-month or nine-month period of the current
fiscal year ended more that thirty (30) days prior to the date of the request,
and such statement shall be delivered or mailed to the person making the request
within thirty (30) days thereafter.  Such statements shall be accompanied by the
report thereon, if any, of any independent accountants engaged by the
corporation or the certificates of an authorized officer of the corporation that
such financial statements were prepared without audit from the books and records
of the corporation.

     SECTION 6.6    REPRESENTATIONS OF SHARES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS.

          The President and Vice President of this corporation are authorized to
vote, represent and exercise on behalf of the corporation all rights incident to
any and all shares of any other corporation or corporations standing in the name
of this corporation.  The authority herein granted to said officers to vote or
represent on behalf of this corporation any and all shares held by this
corporation


                                       121
<PAGE>


and any other corporation or corporations may be exercised either by such
officers in person or by any person authorized so to do by proxy or power of
attorney and duly executed by said officers.

     SECTION 6.7    INSPECTION OF BY-LAWS.

          The corporation shall keep in its principal executive office in this
State the original or a copy of the By-Laws as amended or otherwise altered to
date, which shall be open to inspection by the shareholders at all reasonable
times during office hours.


                                   ARTICLE VII

                                 SHARES OF STOCK

     SECTION 7.1    FORM OF CERTIFICATES.

          Certificates for shares of stock of the corporation shall be in such
form and design as the Board of Directors shall determine and shall be signed in
the name of the corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or the President or
Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary
or any Assistant Secretary.  Each certificate shall state the certificate
number, the date of issuance, the number, class or series and the name of the
record holder of the shares represented thereby, the name of the corporation,
and, if the shares of the corporation are classified or if any class of shares
has two or more series, there shall appear the statement required by the
California Corporations Code.

     SECTION 7.2    TRANSFER OF SHARES.

          Shares of stock may be transferred in any manner permitted or provided
by law.  Before any transfer of stock is entered upon the books of the
corporation, or any new certificate issued therefor, the older certificate,
properly endorsed, shall be surrendered and cancelled, except when a certificate
has been lost, stolen or destroyed.

     SECTION 7.3    LOST CERTIFICATES.

          The Board of Directors may order a new certificate for shares of stock
to be issued in the place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen
or destroyed, but in every such case, the owner or the legal representative of
the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificates may be required to give
the corporation a bond (or other adequate security) in such form and amount as
the Board may deem sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made
against the corporation (including any expense or liability) on account of the


                                       122

<PAGE>

alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or issuance of such
new certificate.

     SECTION 7.4    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN.

          The Board of Directors shall have the authority, in its discretion, to
adopt and carry out an employee stock purchase plan or agreement, containing
such terms and conditions as the Board may prescribe, for the issue and sale of
unissued shares of the corporation, or of its issued shares acquired or to be
acquired, to the employees of the corporation or to the employees of its
subsidiary corporations or to a trustee on their behalf, and for the payment of
such shares in installments or at one time, and for such consideration as may be
fixed by the Board, and may provide for aiding any such employees in paying for
such shares by compensation for services rendered, promissory notes or
otherwise.


                                  ARTICLE VIII

                    INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

     SECTION 8.1    INDEMNIFICATION BY CORPORATION.

          The corporation shall indemnify any Director, officer, employee or
other agent of the corporation against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements
and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in a proceeding (including a
derivative action on behalf of the corporation) to which that person was or is
threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that he was or is an agent
of the corporation, to the maximum extent permissible under the California
Corporations Code.

     SECTION 8.2    ADVANCING EXPENSES.

          The corporation shall advance to each Director or officer the expenses
incurred in defending any proceeding referred to in SECTION 8.1 of these By-Laws
prior to the final disposition of such proceeding as provided in the California
Corporations Code.

     SECTION 8.3    NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS.

          The rights conferred on any person in SECTIONS 8.1 and 8.2 shall not
be exclusive of any other right which such persons may have or hereafter acquire
under any statute, provision of the Articles of Incorporation, By-Law,
agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested Directors or otherwise.


                                       123
<PAGE>


     SECTION 8.4    INDEMNIFICATION CONTRACTS.

          The Board of Directors is authorized to enter into a contract with any
Director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation, or any person serving
at the request of the corporation as a Director, officer, employee or agent of
another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise,
including employee benefit plans, providing for indemnification rights
equivalent to or, if the Board of Directors so determines, greater than, those
provided for in this Article VIII.

     SECTION 8.5    INSURANCE.

          The corporation shall maintain insurance to the extent reasonably
available, at its expense, to protect itself and any such Director, officer,
employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint
venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss,
whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person
against such expense, liability or loss under the California Corporations Code.

     SECTION 8.6    EFFECT OF AMENDMENT.

          Any amendment, repeal or modification of any provision of this Article
VIII by the shareholders and the Directors of the corporation shall not
adversely affect any right or protection of a Director or officer of the
corporation existing at the time of such amendment, repeal or modification.


                                   ARTICLE IX

                                   AMENDMENTS

     SECTION 9.1    POWER OF SHAREHOLDERS.

          New By-Laws may be adopted or these By-Laws may be amended or repealed
by the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares entitled to vote
or by the written consent thereof, except as otherwise provided by law or by the
Articles of Incorporation.

     SECTION 9.2    POWER OF DIRECTORS.

          Subject to the right of shareholders as provided in Section 9.1 of
these By-Laws, By-Laws other than a By-Law or amendment thereof specifying or
changing the authorized number of Directors, or the minimum or maximum number of
a variable Board of Directors, or changing from a fixed to a variable


                                       124
<PAGE>


Board of Directors or vice versa, may be adopted, amended or repealed by the
approval of the Board of Directors.


                                       125

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.32
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.32
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                          ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                EXHIBIT 10.32

          SUBLEASE OF THE LAND AND LEASE OF THE IMPROVEMENTS BY AND
             BETWEEN SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE INC. AND
                        ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED


                                       126

<PAGE>


SUBLEASE OF THE LAND
AND LEASE OF THE IMPROVEMENTS

By and Between

SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE, INC.
a Delaware corporation

as Landlord

and

ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
a California corporation



as Tenant


for
Premises located in
San Jose, California


THIS LEASE IS NOT INTENDED TO CONSTITUTE A TRUE LEASE FOR INCOME TAX PURPOSES.
SEE SECTION 22.2



                                       127


<PAGE>

                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                            Page


                                    ARTICLE I
                             BASIC LEASE PROVISIONS
1.1   Date of Lease.......................................... 1
1.2   Landlord............................................... 1
1.3   Tenant................................................. 1
1.4   Land................................................... 1
1.5   Ground Lessor.......................................... 1
1.6   Premises............................................... 2
1.7   Term................................................... 2
1.8   Interim Period......................................... 2
1.9   Rent Commencement Date................................. 2
1.10  Base Rent.............................................. 3
1.11  Ground Rent............................................ 3
1.12  Addresses for Notices.................................. 3
1.13  Wire Transfer Instructions............................. 3

                                    ARTICLE 2
                                   DEFINITIONS
2.1   Additional Rent........................................ 4
2.2   Advance................................................ 4
2.3   After Tax Basis........................................ 4
2.4   Base Rent.............................................. 5
2.5   Building............................................... 5
2.6   Calculation Period..................................... 5
2.7   Capitalized Amount..................................... 5
2.8   Capitalized Funding Costs.............................. 5
2.9   City................................................... 6
2.10  Collateral............................................. 6
2.11  Commitment Amount...................................... 6
2.12  Commitment Component................................... 6
2.13  Construction Management Agreement...................... 6
2.14  Contractor............................................. 6
2.15  Default Rate........................................... 6
2.16  Entity................................................. 6
2.17  Event of Default....................................... 7
2.18  Guaranteed Residual Value.............................. 7
2.19  Improvements........................................... 7
2.20  Improvements Commencement Date......................... 7
2.21  Initial Advance........................................ 7
2.22  Interim Period......................................... 7
2.23  Land................................................... 7
2.24  Landlord Affiliate..................................... 7
2.25  Lease Inception Date................................... 7
2.26  Lease Investment Balance............................... 7
2.27  Legal Requirements..................................... 8
2.28  LIBOR Rate............................................. 8
2.29  Notice................................................. 8
2.30  Official Records....................................... 9
2.31  Permitted Title Exceptions............................. 9


                                       128

<PAGE>

2.32  Pledge Agreement....................................... 9
2.33  Premises............................................... 9
2.34  Real Estate Taxes...................................... 9
2.35  Rent Commencement Date................................. 9
2.36  Rent Payment Date...................................... 9
2.37  Required Permits....................................... 9
2.38  SBLF Deed of Trust..................................... 9
2.39  SBNYTC................................................. 9
2.40  Taking................................................. 9
2.41  Term................................................... 10
2.42  Terminology............................................ 10

                                    ARTICLE 3
                                     DEMISE
3.1   Premises............................................... 10

                                    ARTICLE 4
                                      TERM

4.1   Term................................................... 10
4.2   Option to Extend....................................... 10
4.3   Holding Over........................................... 10

                                    ARTICLE 5
                          CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS
5.1   Tenant's Rights to Construct Improvements.............. 11
5.2   Title to and Nature of Improvements.................... 11

                                    ARTICLE 6
                                     FUNDING

6.1   Request for Construction Funding:
         Landlord's Obligation to Fund....................... 11
6.2   Exhibit Reflecting Rent Commencement Date.............. 11

                                    ARTICLE 7
                                      RENT
7.1   Base Rent.............................................. 11
7.2   Proration.............................................. 12
7.3   No Abatement of Rent................................... 12
7.4   Delinquent Rent........................................ 12
7.5   Additional Rent........................................ 12

                                    ARTICLE 8
                                      TAXES
8.1  Real Estate Taxes....................................... 12
8.2  Personal Property Taxes................................. 13
8.3  Right to Contest........................................ 13
8.4  Additional Charges...................................... 14

                                    ARTICLE 9
                                    INSURANCE
9.1  Liability Insurance..................................... 15
9.2  Builders' Risk Insurance................................ 15
9.3  All-Risk Insurance...................................... 15
9.4  General Requirements.................................... 16


                                       129

<PAGE>


9.5  Waiver of Subrogation.................................. 16
9.6  Indemnity.............................................. 17

                                   ARTICLE 10
                                       USE
10.1 Use.................................................... 17
10.2 Contest of Legal Requirements.......................... 19

                                   ARTICLE 11
                             UTILITIES AND SERVICES
11.1 Services to the Premises............................... 19

                                   ARTICLE 12
               MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS; SURRENDER OF THE PREMISES
12.1 Tenant Obligations..................................... 19
12.2 Surrender of the Premises.............................. 20

                                   ARTICLE 13
                                      LIENS
13.1 ....................................................... 20

                                   ARTICLE 14
                             ASSIGNMENT BY LANDLORD
14.1 Further Mortgages or Encumbrances by Landlord.......... 20
14.2 Landlord's Right to Sell............................... 20
14.3 Transfer of Funds and Property......................... 21

                                   ARTICLE 15
                            ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING
15.1 Right to Assign........................................ 21
15.2 Right to Sublet........................................ 22
15.3 Mortgage by Tenant..................................... 22

                                   ARTICLE 16
                                 EMINENT DOMAIN
16.1 Total or Substantial Taking............................ 22
16.2 Partial Taking......................................... 22
16.3 Temporary Taking....................................... 23
16.4 Damages................................................ 23
16.5 Notice and Execution................................... 23
16.6 Terms of Ground Lease.................................. 23

                                   ARTICLE 17
                              DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION
17.1 Casualty............................................... 24
17.2 Termination of Lease................................... 24
17.3 Insurance Proceeds..................................... 24
17.4 Terms of Ground Lease.................................. 26

                                   ARTICLE 18
                                     DEFAULT
18.1 Default................................................ 26
18.2 Contest by Tenant...................................... 28
18.3 Remedies............................................... 28


                                       130

<PAGE>

18.4 No Waiver.............................................. 29
18.5 Effect of Assignment................................... 29
18.6 Landlord Cure Right.................................... 30
18.7 Landlord's Default..................................... 30

                                   ARTICLE 19
                                 QUIET ENJOYMENT
19.1 Quiet Enjoyment........................................ 31

                                   ARTICLE 20
                    TENANT'S OPTION TO PURCHASE OR TERMINATE
20.1 Option To Purchase Premises............................ 31
20.2 Termination Option..................................... 33

                                   ARTICLE 21
                              COVENANTS OF LANDLORD
21.1 Title.................................................. 34
21.2 Land Use............................................... 34
21.3 Transfer of Property Interests......................... 35

                                   ARTICLE 22
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

22.1  Relationship.......................................... 35
22.2  Form of Transaction: Certain Tax Matters.............. 35
22.3  Notices............................................... 36
22.4  Severability of Provisions............................ 36
22.5  Entire Agreement: Amendment........................... 36
22.6  Memorandum of Sublease of the Land and Lease of the
      Improvements.......................................... 37
22.7  Successors and Assigns................................ 37
22.8  Commissions........................................... 37
22.9  Attorneys' Fees....................................... 37
22.10 Governing Law......................................... 37
22.11 Counterparts.......................................... 37
22.12 Time Is of the Essence................................ 38
22.13 No Third Party Beneficiaries.......................... 38
22.14 Limitations on Recourse............................... 38
22.15 Estoppel Certificates................................. 38
22.16 Collateral............................................ 38
22.17 As-Is Lease........................................... 38
22.18 Net Lease............................................. 38
22.19 Representations and Warranties........................ 39
22.20 Financial Reporting................................... 39
22.21 Nondiscrimination..................................... 39

                                   ARTICLE 23
                                 INDEMNIFICATION
23.1  Tax Indemnity......................................... 40
23.2  Environmental Indemnity............................... 41
23.3  Construction Indemnification.......................... 41
23.4  General Indemnity..................................... 42


                                       131

<PAGE>


SUBLEASE OF THE LAND AND LEASE OF THE
IMPROVEMENTS

     THIS SUBLEASE OF THE LAND AND LEASE OF THE IMPROVEMENTS ("Lease") by and
between SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation
("Landlord"), and ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, a California corporation
("Tenant"), is entered into as of the date set forth in Article 1 and shall be
effective and binding upon the parties hereto as of such date.  Capitalized
terms used in this Lease shall have the definitions set forth in Article 2 or in
the text of this Lease.

     In consideration of the Base Rent reserved herein, and the terms, covenants
and conditions set forth below, Landlord and Tenant hereby agree as follows:

                                    ARTICLE 1
                             BASIC LEASE PROVISIONS


1.1 Date of Lease:  October 12, 1994.

1.2 Landlord:  Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc., a
          Delaware corporation

1.3 Tenant:    Adobe Systems Incorporated, a California
          corporation.

1.4 Land:      A leasehold interest in that certain tract of land
          located in the City of San Jose, Santa Clara County, California, as
          more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto, arising
          under that certain Ground Lease of even date herewith between the
          Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Jose, as Ground Lessor, and
          Landlord, as Ground Lessee (the "Ground Lease"), together with all
          easements, rights of way, appurtenances and other rights and benefits
          belonging or pertaining to such land.  Landlord makes no
          representations as to the accuracy of the description of the Land or
          the leasehold interest.

1.5 Ground Lessor:  Redevelopment Agency of the City of San Jose,
          50 West San Fernando Street, San Jose, California 95113.

1.6 Premises:  The Land and the Improvements which Tenant may
          construct, as agent for Landlord, on the Land pursuant to the terms of
          that certain Construction Management Agreement of even date herewith
          between Landlord and Tenant.

1.7 Term:      The initial term of this Lease ("Initial Term") shall
          commence (i) with respect to the Land on the Date of Lease set forth
          in Section 1.1 above, and (ii) with respect to the Improvements, on
          the Improvements



                                       132

<PAGE>

          Commencement Date; and the Term of this Lease shall expire on October
          15, 2001.  The term of this Lease may be extended for one additional
          five (5) year period (the "Extension Term") in accordance with the
          terms of Section 4.2 below.  The Initial Term and (if so extended) the
          Extension Term shall be referred to herein as the "Term." The Term
          shall cease upon, and shall not refer to any period of time after,
          termination of this Lease (whether pursuant to the terms of the Lease,
          by operation of law, or otherwise).

1.8   Interim Period: Interim Period shall be the period commencing on the
          Date of Lease and ending on the day before the
          Improvements Commencement Date as defined in Section 2.20 below.

1.9   Rent Commencement Date:

          The rent commencement date ("Rent Commencement Date") shall be the
          fifteenth (15th) day of the second full calendar month which commences
          immediately following the earlier to occur of the following:

          (1)  Thirty (30) months following the Date of Lease; or

          (2)  The forty-fifth (45th) day following the date upon which all of
          the following have occurred: (i) the Building and all other
          Improvements that Tenant intends to cause to be constructed with
          Advances made by Landlord pursuant to the Construction Management
          Agreement have been substantially completed; (ii) valid notices of
          completion have been recorded with respect thereto; and (iii) all
          necessary governmental approvals (including permanent certificates of
          occupancy) have been issued as may be necessary to occupy all portions
          of the Building for the conduct of Tenant's business therein.

1.10 Base Rent:     As described in Section 2.4.

1.11 Ground Rent:   Any payment made to Ground Lessor under the
          Ground Lease.

1.12 Addresses for Notices:

LANDLORD:



                                       133

<PAGE>

TENANT:
Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
One World Trade Center, Suite 8545
New York, NY 10048
Attention: Chief Credit Officer



                                       134

<PAGE>

Adobe Systems Incorporated
1625 Charleston Road (zip 94043)
Post Office Box 7900
Mountain View, CA 94039-7900
Attention: Director of Real Estate
With a copy to:           With a copy to:

Landels, Ripley & Diamond
Hills Plaza
350 Steuart Street
San Francisco, CA 94105-1250
Attention: Bruce W. Hyman, Esq.



                                       135

<PAGE>

Adobe Systems Incorporated
1625 Charleston Road (zip 94043)
Post Office Box 7900
Mountain View, CA 94039-7900
Attention: General Counsel
 and


                                       136

<PAGE>

 and
Sumitomo Bank of New York Trust
 Company
One World Trade Center, Suite 8505
New York, NY 10048
Attention: Corporate Trust Department


                                       137

<PAGE>

Shartsis, Friese & Ginsburg
One Maritime Plaza, 18th Floor
San Francisco, CA 94111
Attention: David H. Kremer, Esq.
1.13 Wire Transfer Instructions:

     Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York
     ABA#021000238
     For credit to The Sumitomo Bank, LimitedA/C #631-28-256
     Further credit to Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
          A/C No.283572

     This Article 1 is intended to supplement and/or summarize the provisions
set forth in the balance of this Lease.  If there is any conflict between any
provisions contained in this Article 1 and the balance of this Lease, the
balance of this Lease shall control.

                                    ARTICLE 2
                                   DEFINITIONS

     For purposes of this Lease, the following defined terms shall have the
meanings set forth in this Article 2.

     2.1   Additional Rent.  "Additional Rent" shall mean any amounts other than
Base Rent payable by Tenant to Landlord or to other Entities on Landlord's
behalf as required under this Lease, including, without limitation, interest
accrued on past due Base Rent and on other past due Additional Rent amounts
owing to Landlord hereunder at the Default Rate (to be compounded annually),
costs and expenses to be paid or reimbursed by Tenant hereunder (including any
amounts which Tenant owes to Landlord pursuant to the terms of Section 18.6),
break-funding costs of Landlord related to the Lease Investment
Balance (as defined below) arising out of unscheduled payments or exercise of
the Purchase Option pursuant to Section 20.1 below other than on Rent Payment
Days, amounts due pursuant to Tenant's indemnity obligations hereunder, Real
Estate Taxes, Tenant's obligation to pay condemnation proceeds to Landlord
pursuant to Section 16.4, Tenant's obligation to pay insurance proceeds to
Landlord pursuant to Section 17.3, and failure of Tenant to pay to Landlord the
Lease Investment Balance at the end of the Term or upon an Event of Default,
unless Tenant has elected its option to purchase or terminate
under Article 20 below and is not in default in its obligations thereunder.

     2.2   Advance. "Advance" shall mean any payment by Landlord for (i) any
costs relating to construction of the Improvements, whether funded under the
Construction Management Agreement or paid directly by Landlord, including,
without limitation, transaction costs (including title charges and professional
fees and expenses), construction costs, architectural, engineering and other
professional fees, arrangement fees, appraisal fees, inspection, testing and
permitting fees, fees and costs for review of plans and any changes thereto,
travel expense for inspections, insurance and any other soft costs relating
to the Improvements; (ii) the items and/or amounts described in Exhibit B; (iii)
Real Estate


                                       138

<PAGE>

Taxes and any other amounts, if any, that are paid by Landlord as lessee under
the Ground Lease during the Interim Period; and (iv) all reasonable and
customary fees of Landlord during the Interim Period relating to the
construction of the Improvements and the processing of Draw Requests (including
an annual servicing fee of $2000 to SBNYTC), custodian fees related to the
Collateral and any other payment described herein or in the Construction
Management Agreement as an Advance.

     2.3   After Tax Basis.  "After Tax Basis" means, with respect to any
payment to be received, the amount of such payment increased so that, after
deduction of the amount of all taxes required to be paid by the recipient (less
any tax savings realized and the present value of any tax savings projected to
be realized by the recipient as a result of the payment of the indemnified
amount) with respect to the receipt by the recipient of such
amounts, such increased payment (as so reduced) is equal to the payment
otherwise required to be made.

     2.4   Base Rent.  "Base Rent" shall mean, as of a Rent Payment Date, that
annual amount equal to the product obtained by multiplying the Lease Investment
Balance (at the time of the relevant calculation) by the sum of the LIBOR Rate
plus 25 basis points, which annual amount is then prorated for the monthly
rental period in question on the basis of a 360 day year and the actual number
of days elapsed.

     2.5   Building. "Building" shall mean the building and related improvements
to be constructed on the Land that shall become part of the Improvements, which
shall be an office complex.

     2.6   Calculation Period.  "Calculation Period" shall mean the period from
and including the 15th day of each month during the Interim Period through the
14th day of the following month; provided that the first Calculation Period
shall be the period from the Date of Lease through the 14th day of the following
month and the last Calculation Period shall be the period from and including the
15th day of the month prior to the month in which the Improvements Commencement
Date occurs through the day immediately preceding the Improvements Commencement
Date.

     2.7   Capitalized Amount.  "Capitalized Amount" shall mean that amount,
determined as of the close of each Calculation Period during the Interim Period
and added to the Lease Investment Balance as of such date, equal to the sum of
the Capitalized Funding Costs plus the Commitment Component accrued for the
Calculation Period in question.  Landlord shall notify Tenant of the Capitalized
Amount for each Calculation Period and the basis for the determination thereof;
and if Tenant fails to object to such determination within five (5) business
days of Landlord's notice thereof, Tenant shall be deemed to have approved such
determination.

     2.8   Capitalized Funding Costs.  "Capitalized Funding Costs" shall mean,
for each Calculation Period during the Interim Period, that annual amount equal
to the product obtained by multiplying the Lease Investment Balance outstanding
from time to time during the Calculation Period in question by the sum of the
LIBOR Rate plus 25 basis points, which annual amount is then prorated for the
Calculation Period in question on the


                                       139

<PAGE>

basis of a 360 day year and the actual number of days in such Calculation
Period.  The LIBOR Rate to be used with respect to the determination of
Capitalized Funding Costs shall be the 1, 2, 3, 6, 9 or 12 month LIBOR Rate, as
specified by Tenant at least two (2) business days prior to the start of each
Calculation Period with respect to the Lease Investment Balance outstanding as
of such Calculation Period; provided that, if Tenant fails to so specify a LIBOR
Rate prior to the start of a Calculation Period, the one (1) month LIBOR Rate
shall be deemed to have been designated by Tenant.

   2.9    City. "City" shall mean the City of San Jose, California.

   2.10   Collateral.  "Collateral" shall have the meaning set forth in
          Section 22.16.

   2.11   Commitment Amount.  "Commitment Amount" shall mean SIXTY SIX
MILLION and no/100 Dollars ($66,000,000.00).

   2.12   Commitment Component.  "Commitment Component" shall mean, for
each Calculation Period during the Interim Period, that annual amount equal to
the product obtained by multiplying the unused Commitment Amount outstanding
from time to time during the Calculation Period in question by .25%, which
annual amount is then prorated for the Calculation Period in question on the
basis of a 360 day year and the actual number of days in such Calculation
Period.  Portions of the Commitment Amount shall be deemed to be used (i) as of
the date of each Advance by Landlord during the Interim Period, on which date
each such Advance shall be added to and become part of the Lease Investment
Balance, and (ii) as of the date at the close of each Calculation Period on
which the Capitalized Amount for such Calculation Period is added to and becomes
part of the Lease Investment Balance.

     For purposes of calculating the Lease Investment Balance and any other
obligations under this Lease, the Commitment Component shall only accrue during
the Interim Period and shall cease to accrue following the Improvements
Commencement Date.

     2.13 Construction Management Agreement.  "Construction Management
Agreement" shall mean that certain Construction Management Agreement of even
date herewith between Landlord and Tenant regarding the construction of the
Improvements.

     2.14 Contractor.  "Contractor" shall mean any general contractor hired to
construct any portion of the Improvements, which contractor shall be selected by
Tenant in Tenant's capacity as agent for Landlord under the Construction
Management Agreement, and shall be subject to Landlord's approval, which shall
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

     2.15 Default Rate.  "Default Rate" means with respect to the Lease
Investment Balance, the one (1) month LIBOR Rate plus 225 basis points.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the foregoing Default Rate
shall be in violation of any usury or similar law, then the Default Rate shall
be reduced to the extent necessary to cause the Default Rate to comply with any
usury or similar law.

     2.16 Entity.  "Entity" shall mean any person, corporation, partnership
(general


                                       140

<PAGE>
or limited), joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust or other
business entity or organization.

     2.17 Event of Default.  "Event of Default" shall have the meaning set forth
in Section 18.1.

     2.18 Guaranteed Residual Value.  "Guaranteed Residual Value" shall mean the
maximum amount, the present value of which, when added to the present value of
the Tenant's other minimum lease payments under this Lease, both discounted to
the Improvements Commencement Date using the appropriate discount rate, creates
a sum which equals approximately eighty-nine and nine-tenths percent (89.9%) of
the Lease Investment Balance at such date.  These calculations will be performed
in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
Number 13.

     2.19 Improvements.  "Improvements" shall mean any and all improvements
which Tenant shall, as construction agent for Landlord, erect, construct or
situate upon the Land or any part thereof during the Term under and pursuant to
the terms of, and using funding provided by or through Landlord pursuant to the
Construction Management Agreement.

     2.20 Improvements Commencement Date.  "Improvements Commencement Date"
shall mean the fifteenth (15th) day of the month immediately preceding the month
in which the Rent Commencement Date occurs.

     2.21 Initial Advance.  Initial Advance shall mean the amounts described in
Exhibit B pertaining to execution of the Ground Lease and this Lease.

     2.22 Interim Period.  "Interim Period" shall have the meaning set forth in
the Basic Lease Provisions.

     2.23 Land.  "Land" shall have the meaning set forth in the Basic Lease
Provisions.

     2.24 Landlord Affiliate.  "Landlord Affiliate" shall mean any Entity which
controls, is controlled by or is under the common control of Landlord.

     2.25 Lease Inception Date.  "Lease Inception Date" shall mean the Date of
Lease.

     2.26 Lease Investment Balance.  "Lease Investment Balance" shall mean, at
the time in question, the aggregate amount of all Advances made by Landlord plus
any outstanding Capitalized Amount not yet added to the Lease Investment Balance
(as described in Section 2.7 above), reduced by the following: (1) the aggregate
of all amounts received by Landlord pursuant to the provisions of Article 16
(Eminent Domain), Article 17 (Damage or Destruction), Section 18.3(b) and
18.3(c), and/or Article 20 (Tenant's Option to Purchase or Terminate); and (2)
the aggregate of all amounts received by Landlord in respect of this Lease or
any related agreement (including, without limitation, the Pledge Agreement) that
are not otherwise applied to reduce the Lease Investment Balance and which
constitute a repayment or reduction of the amounts placed at risk by the
Landlord (whether through realization upon the Collateral or otherwise)



                                       141

<PAGE>

(excluding for purposes of this clause amounts paid as rent, reimbursement for
expenses payable by Tenant, fees payable by Tenant and similar items).

     2.27 Legal Requirements.  "Legal Requirements" shall mean all statutes,
codes, laws, acts, ordinances, orders, judgments, decrees, injunctions, rules,
regulations, permits, licenses, authorizations, directions and requirements of
all federal, state, county, municipal and other governments, departments,
commissions, boards, courts, authorities, officials and officers, which now or
at any time hereafter are applicable to this Lease or applicable to and
enforceable against the Premises, the Improvements or any part thereof,
as applicable.

     2.28 LIBOR Rate.  "LIBOR Rate" shall mean, for each Borrowing Period as
defined below, the annualized rate determined by The Sumitomo Bank, Limited as
the rate that would be offered to The Sumitomo Bank, Limited's San Francisco or
New York office for U.S. dollar deposits in the London Interbank Market as
quoted for the mid-morning average LIBOR Rate published by Reuters Monitoring
Systems for the particular Borrowing Period (rounded upwards, if necessary, to
the next higher 1/16th of 1%) for deposits by The Sumitomo Bank, Limited of
immediately available dollars in the London Interbank Market on the day two (2)
Business Days preceding the first day of the term of that Borrowing Period.  In
the event the Reuters quote is not available, the British Banker's Association's
Interest Settlement Rate should be used.  "Borrowing Period" shall mean 1, 2, 3,
6, 9, or 12 months (i) as selected by Tenant during the Interim Period as
provided in Section 2.8 above, and (ii) as selected by Tenant from time to time
during the balance of the Term at least two (2) business days prior to the end
of the then current Borrowing Period (provided that, if Tenant fails to so
select a Borrowing Period prior to the end of the then current Borrowing Period,
a Borrowing Period of one (1) month shall be deemed to have been selected by
Tenant); provided, however, that (X) during the Interim Period there shall not
be more than three (3) LIBOR Rates in effect at any time, and (Y) from and after
the Improvements Commencement Date, there shall not be more than five (5) LIBOR
Rates in effect at any time.  Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that more than one
LIBOR Rate may be in effect at any time during the Term with respect to portions
of the outstanding Lease Investment Balance as designated by Tenant at the time
that a particular Borrowing Period is designated, and the calculation of monthly
Capitalized Funding Costs or Base Rent, as the case may be, shall be based upon
the LIBOR Rates applicable to the portions of the Lease Investment Balance so
designated.

     2.29 Notice.  "Notice" shall mean a written advice, request, demand or
notification required or permitted by this Lease, as more particularly provided
in Section 22.3.

     2.30 Official Records.  "Official Records" shall mean the official records
of Santa Clara County, California.

     2.31 Permitted Title Exceptions.  "Permitted Title Exceptions" shall mean
the following: (1) the exceptions set forth in Exhibit C; (2) any exceptions
created or caused by Tenant or to which Tenant consents in writing; (3) taxes
and assessments not yet due and payable; (4) the SBLF Deed of Trust; (5) all
title defects, liens, encumbrances, deeds of trust, mortgages, rights-of-way,
and restrictive covenants and conditions affecting the


                                       142

<PAGE>

Land unless any of the foregoing arise as a result of Landlord's actions or with
Landlord's written consent (unless such actions taken or consent given by
Landlord are requested in writing by Tenant); and (6) this Lease.

     2.32 Pledge Agreement.  "Pledge Agreement" shall mean that certain Pledge
Agreement of even date herewith executed by and between Tenant and Landlord.

     2.33 Premises.  "Premises" shall have the meaning set forth in the Basic
Lease Provisions.

     2.34 Real Estate Taxes.  "Real Estate Taxes" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 8.1(b).

     2.35 Rent Commencement Date.  "Rent Commencement Date" shall have the
meaning set forth in the Basic Lease Provisions.

     2.36 Rent Payment Date.  "Rent Payment Date" shall have the meaning set
forth in  Section 7.1.

     2.37 Required Permits.  "Required Permits" shall mean each and every
building and development permit including, without limitation, demolition
permits, site permits and addenda thereto (including, without limitation,
foundation permits and structural permits), temporary and final occupancy
permits and any other governmental or quasi-governmental approvals which must be
issued by any governmental authority, department, commission, board, official or
officer as a condition precedent to construction and occupancy of any
Improvements.

     2.38 SBLF Deed of Trust.  "SBLF Deed of Trust" shall mean that certain deed
of trust of even date herewith in favor of Landlord which is executed by Tenant.

     2.39 SBNYTC.  "SBNYTC" shall mean Sumitomo Bank of New York Trust Company.

     2.40 Taking.  "Taking" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 16.1.

     2.41 Term.  "Term" shall have the meaning set forth in the Basic Lease
Provisions.

     2.42 Terminology.  All personal pronouns used in this Lease shall include
all other genders.  The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular.  Titles of Articles, Sections and Subsections in this
Lease are for convenience only and neither limit nor amplify the provisions of
this Lease, and all references in this Lease to Articles, Sections or
Subsections shall refer to the corresponding Article, Section or Subsection of
this Lease unless specific reference is made to the articles, sections or other
subdivisions of another document or instrument.  The word "days" as used herein
shall mean business days (i.e., excluding holidays when banks in California, New
York and London (with respect to payment of Advances, payment of Basic Rent and
the determination of the LIBOR Rate) are generally closed for business and
weekends) unless otherwise expressly stated.  Unless otherwise specified herein,
all accounting terms used


                                       143

<PAGE>

herein shall be interpreted, all accounting determinations hereunder shall be
made, and all financial statements required to be delivered hereunder shall be
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in
effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent with the most recent
audited consolidated financial statements of the Tenant and its consolidated
subsidiaries delivered to Landlord.

                                    ARTICLE 3
                                     DEMISE

     3.1   Premises. Subject to the terms, covenants and conditions contained
herein, Landlord hereby subleases the Land and leases the Improvements to
Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from Landlord, the Land and Improvements,
together with all rights, privileges, easements and appurtenances relating to
the Land and Improvements.  Tenant agrees that it shall use the Premises in
accordance with all of the terms and conditions of the Ground Lease and shall
comply with all terms and conditions of the Ground Lease applicable to Tenant.

                                    ARTICLE 4
                                      TERM

     4.1   Term. The Term of this Lease is specified in Article 1.

     4.2   Option to Extend.  If no Event of Default exists hereunder or would
exist except for the passage of time or giving of notice, Landlord hereby grants
to Tenant at the end of the Initial Term upon not less than six (6) months prior
written notice the option to extend the Term for one (1) five (5) year period.
The Base Rent and Additional Rent shall be calculated during the Extension Term
in the same manner as in the Initial Term.

     4.3   Holding Over.  If Tenant remains in possession of the Premises after
the expiration of the Term without executing a new lease, such holding over
shall be construed as a tenancy from month-to-month, subject to all terms,
covenants and conditions herein contained, and the Base Rent shall be calculated
based upon the Default Rate and shall be required to be paid by Tenant during
such holding over in the same manner as during the Term.

                                    ARTICLE 5
                          CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS

     5.1   Tenant's Rights to Construct Improvements.  As of the Date of Lease,
no improvements exist on the Land.  Tenant shall have the right, in accordance
with the terms of the Construction Management Agreement, to require Landlord to
pay for the construction of the Improvements.
     5.2   Title to and Nature of Improvements.  Subject to the provisions of
Sections 12.2 and 22.2, Tenant agrees that any and all Improvements of whatever
nature at any time constructed, placed or maintained upon any part of the Land
shall be and remain the Property of Landlord, subject to Tenant's rights under
Article 16, Article 17 and Article 20 and elsewhere in this Lease.

                                    ARTICLE T

                                       144

<PAGE>

                                     FUNDING

     6.1  Request for Construction Funding: Landlord's Obligation to Fund.
During the Interim Period, Tenant shall request Landlord to provide Advances for
the construction of Improvements in accordance with the Construction Management
Agreement.  Each such request shall be in writing and shall generally describe
the nature of the Advance.  Landlord shall fund Advances requested by Tenant in
accordance with the terms of the Construction Management Agreement.  Landlord
shall have no obligation to make any further Advances following the Improvements
Commencement Date.

     6.2   Exhibit Reflecting Rent Commencement Date.  Within thirty (30) days
after the Rent Commencement Date, Landlord and Tenant shall execute the "Rent
Commencement Date Memorandum" in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D.

                                    ARTICLE 7
                                      RENT

     7.1   Base Rent.  Commencing upon the Rent Commencement Date and continuing
thereafter throughout the Term, Tenant shall pay Base Rent to Landlord, or at
such other place as Landlord may from time to time instruct.  Tenant shall pay
Base Rent by wire transfer.  Landlord shall supply Tenant with such bank account
information as Tenant shall require to enable payment by wire transfer of
Federal funds to the account described in Section 1.14.  Rental payments shall
be payable monthly in arrears on the fifteenth (15th) day of each successive
month, except that the last installment of Base Rent shall be payable on the
last day of the Term (each such date shall be a "Rent Payment Date").  No sooner
than thirty (30) days or later than ten (10) days prior to the due date for any
installment of Base Rent hereunder, Landlord shall deliver to Tenant a Notice
indicating the exact dollar amount of the Base Rent that is due on such due date
("Invoice").  If Landlord fails to send the Invoice, Tenant shall pay the amount
shown on the previous month's Invoice.

     7.2   Proration. If the Term expires or is otherwise terminated on other
than the fifteen (15th) day of a calendar month, then Base Rent shall be
prorated for the period from the immediately preceding Rent Payment Date until
the termination date on the basis of actual days elapsed on the basis of a three
hundred sixty (360) day year.

     7.3   No Abatement of Rent.  Except as a consequence of a reduction in the
Lease Investment Balance or the terms of Sections 16.1 and 16.2 (Taking) Tenant
shall not be entitled to any abatement, diminution, reduction, setoff or
postponement of Base Rent as a consequence of any inconvenience to, interruption
of, cessation of or loss of Tenant's use or enjoyment of the Premises or as a
result of any reason whatsoever.

     7.4   Delinquent Rent.  Any Base Rent not paid on the due date shall accrue
interest at the Default Rate from the date such Base Rent was originally due
until the date such Base Rent is paid.  All interest accrued on past due Base
Rent shall be due and payable to Landlord at the time the Base Rent is paid, or
upon demand by Landlord, if earlier.


                                       145

<PAGE>

     7.5   Additional Rent.  Tenant agrees to pay all Additional Rent when it
becomes due and payable under this Lease.

                                    ARTICLE 8
                                      TAXES

     8.1   Real Estate Taxes.

          (a)  From and after the Improvements Commencement Date, Tenant shall
pay directly to the appropriate taxing authority all Real Estate Taxes.  If the
Improvements Commencement Date occurs or the Term expires or otherwise
terminates at any time other than the beginning or end of a taxable year,
Tenant's obligation to pay Real Estate Taxes shall be prorated on the basis of a
365-day year, so as to include only that portion of the taxable year which is a
part of the Term.  Unless a termination of the Lease results from the purchase
of the Premises pursuant to Article 20 below, any Real Estate Taxes levied
against the Premises which accrue during the Term of this Lease but which would
not be due and payable to the appropriate taxing authority until after the
expiration of the Term of this Lease (as the same may be extended) shall be paid
by Tenant to Landlord upon such termination.  Landlord shall pay such amounts to
the appropriate taxing authority on a timely basis.  Landlord shall pay any Real
Estate Taxes accruing during the Interim Period to the extent such Real Estate
Taxes are payable by the ground lessee under the terms of the Ground Lease
during such period.

     (b)  Except to the extent that Real Estate Tax bills and statements are
sent directly to Tenant by the taxing authority, upon receipt by Landlord of the
tax bills or statements, Landlord will use reasonable efforts to promptly advise
Tenant in writing of all Real Estate Taxes and shall deliver copies of all
applicable tax bills or statements to Tenant.  Tenant shall pay directly to the
taxing authority all Real Estate Taxes prior to the later of (i) thirty (30)
days after receipt by Tenant from Landlord of a copy of such bills and
statements referred to above, or (ii) five (5) days prior to delinquency.  As
used herein, the term "Real Estate Taxes" shall mean any and all taxes,
governmental fees and similar charges or assessments levied or assessed against
the Improvements and/or the Land including, without limitation, ad valorem taxes
and special assessments applicable to real property, as well as any taxes (as
defined in Section 402.1 of the Ground Lease) and other amounts payable under
Section 402 of the Ground Lease; provided, however, that Real Estate Taxes shall
not include any Landlord Income Taxes.  Real Estate Taxes shall also include any
and all documentary, transfer, sales, mortgage, recording or similar taxes
imposed on Landlord or Tenant in connection with (i) the original acquisition of
the Premises by Landlord, (ii) any transfer of the Premises to Tenant pursuant
to the terms of this Lease, or (iii) any sale of the Premises to a third party
pursuant to the terms of this Lease.  As used herein, the term "Landlord Income
Taxes" shall mean any and all income, franchise, gains, gift, succession, excess
profits, gross receipts, revenue, estate, rental, or similar taxes or taxes in
lieu thereof imposed upon Landlord or any party other than Tenant (or an
affiliate thereof) and any withholding tax imposed as a collection device for,
in lieu of, or otherwise related to any of the foregoing without regard to
whether such tax


                                       146

<PAGE>

is required to be collected by Tenant and without regard to whether Tenant would
be liable for such withholding tax in the event it failed to so withhold.  For
purposes of the foregoing, an income tax shall include, without limitation, any
tax imposed under the United States Internal Revenue Code or the California Bank
and Corporation Tax Law as well as any tax which could qualify as an "income
tax" under United States Treasury Regulation Section 1.901-2 (except to the
extent any such statute or regulation is subsequently modified to include a tax
or other governmental charge of a materially different type and nature from the
taxes currently described therein) and any income tax which may be payable under
the laws of any jurisdiction either now or in the future.  Real
Estate Taxes for any given tax year shall exclude assessment installments that
are not due and payable during such tax year.

     8.2   Personal Property Taxes.  Tenant shall pay directly to the
appropriate taxing authorities prior to delinquency any and all taxes and
assessments levied or assessed during the Term upon or against Tenant's
furniture, equipment, trade fixtures and any other personal property in the
Premises.

     8.3   Right to Contest.  Tenant shall not be required to pay any Real
Estate Taxes or any other taxes for which Tenant is liable hereunder (including,
without limitation, any taxes for which Tenant is required to indemnify Landlord
under Section 23.1) (including penalties and interest), so long as (i) Tenant
shall contest the same or the validity thereof by appropriate legal proceedings
in such a manner to prevent the tax sale of any portion of the Premises and (ii)
the position to be taken by Tenant pursuant to such contest would have a
realistic possibility of success if litigated.  For purposes of this Lease,
Tenant may conclusively establish that a position to be taken in a contest would
have a realistic possibility of success if litigated by providing to Landlord a
letter from counsel stating an opinion to such effect.  In the event of any such
contest, Tenant shall, within thirty (30) days after the final determination
thereof, pay and discharge the amounts determined to be due in accordance
therewith and with the provisions of this Lease, together with any penalties,
fines, interest, costs and expenses that may have accrued thereon or that may
have resulted from Tenant's contest.  Tenant also shall have a right to contest
any taxes for which it is liable hereunder, but with regard to which the
position to be taken pursuant to such contest would not have a realistic
possibility of success if litigated, provided that Tenant pays such taxes on or
prior to the date upon which such taxes are asserted to be due by the relevant
governmental authority.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
Section 8.3, Tenant shall have an unconditional right to contest
(without prior payment) any taxes imposed by law upon Tenant rather than upon
Landlord. Tenant's decision to pay any taxes prior to contesting its or another
party's underlying liability therefore shall not be deemed to imply or suggest
that the position to be taken in such contest would not have a realistic
possibility of success if litigated.  Landlord shall cooperate fully with Tenant
in connection with the exercise of Tenant's right of contest contained herein,
and in the event that applicable law shall require that Landlord, rather than
Tenant, pursue legal proceedings for such contest, Landlord will initiate and
pursue such contest upon Tenant's request and in accordance with Tenant's
instructions

                                       147



<PAGE>

(including, without limitation, Tenant's instructions as to the selection of
legal counsel and matters of strategy or settlement); provided, however, that
Landlord shall not be subject to any liability for the payment of any costs or
expenses in connection with any such contest or proceedings, and Tenant will
indemnify and save harmless Landlord from any such costs and expenses
(including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, costs of court and
appraisal costs), reimbursing Landlord therefor upon demand (or paying such
costs and expenses directly when due, all as directed by Landlord).  Tenant
shall be entitled to any refund of any taxes and penalties or interest from any
governmental authority to the extent the refund represents monies paid to the
governmental authority by Tenant or paid by Landlord and reimbursed by Tenant.

     8.4   Additional Charges.  All payments made by Tenant under this Lease
shall be made free and clear of, and without reduction or withholding for or on
account of, any present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees,
deductions or withholdings, now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected,
withheld or assessed pursuant to any Legal Requirement, excluding, however, any
Landlord Income Taxes (all such nonexcluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions,
charges or withholdings being hereinafter called "Additional Charges").  Tenant
shall be responsible for the payment of any such Additional Charges; and if any
such Additional Charges are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to
Landlord hereunder, then the amounts so payable to Landlord shall be increased
by an amount ("Additional Amount") necessary to yield to Landlord (after payment
of all Additional Charges) the Base Rent and other amounts payable hereunder at
the rates or in the amounts specified in this Lease.  Whenever any Additional
Charges are required to be withheld by Tenant, such Additional Charges shall be
deducted or withheld by Tenant, and shall be paid by Tenant to the appropriate
governmental authority in accordance with applicable Legal Requirements.  As
promptly as possible thereafter, Tenant shall send to Landlord for its own
account a copy of an original official receipt (or other evidence of payment)
received by Tenant showing payment thereof.  If Tenant is required to pay
Landlord any Additional Amount, Landlord shall use its best efforts (consistent
with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change its
jurisdiction if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce
to the greatest extent possible the amount of, any such Additional Amount which
may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of Landlord be
otherwise disadvantageous to Landlord.  If Landlord subsequently receives a
refund of any Additional Amounts, or if such Additional Amounts result in a net
benefit to Landlord, the amount of such refund or net benefit shall be paid to
Tenant within 30 days of the receipt of such refund or net benefit; provided,
however, that the payment to Tenant shall not exceed the Additional Amount to
which the refund or net benefit relates.  The agreements in this Section 8.4
shall survive the termination of this Lease with respect to any Additional
Charges that become due during the Term.

                                    ARTICLE 9
                                    INSURANCE

     9.1   Liability Insurance.  At all times during the Term, Tenant shall
obtain

                                       148

<PAGE>

at Tenant's sole cost and expense a policy or policies of comprehensive general
liability insurance on an "occurrence" basis against claims for "personal
injury" liability, including bodily injury, death or property damage liability.
The liability insurance policy shall contain coverage limits no less than the
following: (1) Three Million Dollars ($3,000,000) per person; (2) Five Million
Dollars ($5,000,000) per incident; and (3) One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) for
property damage.

     9.2   Builders' Risk Insurance.  With respect to any Improvements which may
be under construction and not yet covered by insurance under the terms of
Section 9.3, Tenant shall maintain or cause to be maintained a policy or
policies of builders' risk insurance in an amount equal to the value upon
completion of the work (exclusive of land, foundation, excavation, grading,
landscaping, architectural and development fees and other items customarily
excluded from such coverage), insuring against the risks customarily insured
against under such insurance, including fire, vandalism, malicious mischief,
sprinkler leakage, lightning, and windstorm.

     9.3   All-Risk Insurance.  With respect to any completed Improvements,
prior to the termination of the builders' risk insurance required by Section
9.2, and at all times thereafter, Tenant shall, at Tenant's sole cost and
expense, obtain and maintain, or cause to be obtained and maintained, (a) a
policy or policies of all-risk insurance covering the Improvements, providing
coverage against loss or damage by fire, vandalism, malicious mischief,
sprinkler leakage, lightning, windstorm, and other insurable perils, as, under
good insurance practice, from time to time are insured against under all-risk
coverage for properties of similar character, age and location in an amount or
amounts not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the then actual replacement
cost (exclusive of land, foundation, excavations, grading, landscaping,
architectural and development fees and other items customarily excluded from
such coverage and without any deduction for depreciation); (b) standard
earthquake coverage, with a deductible not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
insured amount; and (c) standard flood coverage.  Provided, however Tenant may
elect not to obtain earthquake insurance, in which case Tenant shall covenant to
pay the cost of repairing damage to the Improvements caused by an earthquake.

     9.4   General Requirements.  The insurance required under this Article 9
may be furnished under a "primary" policy and an "umbrella" policy or policies.
Landlord shall be named as an additional insured under Tenant's policy of
insurance required under Section 9.1; and such policies shall contain an
endorsement for cross-liability coverage.  Tenant shall furnish Landlord with
certificates from Tenant's insurers with respect to the insurance required to be
carried hereunder on or before the date such insurance is required to be
carried.  The certificates shall state that such insurance is in full force and
effect and that coverage will not be reduced in any amount or otherwise limited
or cancelled without thirty (30) days' prior written notice to Landlord.
Renewal certificates shall be furnished


                                       149

<PAGE>

to Landlord not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of each such
policy.  Any blanket insurance policy or policies that insure Tenant against the
risks and for the amounts herein specified shall be deemed to satisfy the
obligation of Tenant hereunder, provided that any such policy of blanket
insurance shall specify the amount of the total insurance allocated to the risks
required to be insured hereunder and such allocated amount meets the
requirements of this Article 9. All insurance required by this Article 9 shall
be with an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of California
with a general policyholder's rating, as rated by the most current available
"Bests" Insurance Reports, and no less than A/III and non-contributing.

     9.5   Waiver of Subrogation.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, to the extent permitted by law and so long as any insurance
coverage maintained by Tenant is not diminished by reason thereof, Tenant hereby
(a) releases and waives any rights it may have against Landlord and its
officers, agents and employees on account of any loss or damages occasioned to
Tenant, its property or the Premises, and arising from any risk covered by any
fire and extended coverage insurance maintained by Tenant, whether or not due to
the negligence of Landlord, its agents, employees, contractors, licensees,
invitees or other persons, and (b) waives on behalf of any insurer providing
such insurance to Tenant any right of subrogation that any such insurer may have
or acquire against Landlord or such persons by virtue of payment of any loss
under such insurance.  Tenant shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to
cause its insurance policies to contain a waiver of subrogation clauses in
accordance with the foregoing.

     9.6   Indemnity. Tenant shall protect, defend, indemnify, hold and save
Landlord harmless from and against any and all losses, costs, liabilities or
damages (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements and court costs)
arising by reason of: (i) any and all injury or death of persons or damage to
property against which Tenant is obligated to maintain insurance for the benefit
of Landlord pursuant to this Article 9; (ii) the failure to obtain the waiver of
subrogation clause required by Section 9.5 hereof where such clause could have
been obtained through the exercise of Tenant's commercially reasonable efforts;
or (iii) the invalidation of such insurance policy required to be obtained
by Tenant hereunder by Tenant's insurer.  Tenant's duty to indemnify Landlord
under this Section 9.6 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of
this Lease with respect to events occurring during the Term.

                                   ARTICLE 10
                                       USE

     10.1 Use.

     (a)  Permitted.  Tenant may use the Premises for any purpose permitted
under the Ground Lease.

     (b)  Environmental Compliance.

          1)  Defined Terms.  The term "Applicable Environmental Laws"


                                       150

<PAGE>

shall mean any applicable laws, regulations or ordinances pertaining to health
or the environment, including, without limitation, the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by
the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 or otherwise (as
amended, hereinafter called "CERCLA"), the Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act of 1976, as amended by the Used Oil Recycling Act of 1980, the Solid Waste
Disposal Act Amendments of 1980, the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of
1984 or otherwise (as amended, hereinafter called "RCRA"), and California Health
& Safety Code Section 25501(j).  The terms "hazardous substance" and "release"
as used in this Lease shall have the meanings specified in CERCLA, and the terms
"solid waste" and "disposal" (or "disposed") shall have the meanings specified
in RCRA; provided, in the event either CERCLA or RCRA is amended or superseded
by other laws so as to broaden the meaning of any term defined thereby, such
broader meaning shall apply subsequent to the effective date of such amendment
or other laws: and, provided further, to the extent that the laws of the State
of California establish a meaning for "hazardous substance", "release", "solid
waste", or "disposal" which is broader than that specified in either CERCLA or
RCRA, such broader meaning shall apply.

          2)    Tenant's Covenants.  Tenant will not cause or permit the
Premises to be in violation of, or do anything or permit anything to be done
which subjects Landlord, Tenant or the Premises to any remedial obligations
under or which creates a claim or cause of action under, any Applicable
Environmental Laws, including, without limitation, CERCLA, RCRA, and the
California Health and Safety Code 25501(j), assuming disclosure to the
applicable governmental authorities of all relevant facts, conditions and
circumstances, if any, pertaining to the Premises and Tenant will promptly
notify Landlord in writing of any existing, pending or threatened investigation,
claim or inquiry of which Tenant has knowledge by any governmental authority in
connection with any Applicable Environmental Laws.  Tenant shall obtain any
permits, licenses or similar authorizations to construct, occupy, operate or use
any Improvements, fixtures and equipment at any time located on the Premises by
reason of any Applicable Environmental Laws.  Tenant will not use the Premises
in a manner which will result in the unlawful disposal or other unlawful release
of any hazardous substance or solid waste on or to the Premises and covenants
and agrees to keep or cause the Premises to be kept free of any unlawful
hazardous substance, unlawful solid waste or unlawful environmental contaminants
(including, without limitation, friable asbestos and any substance containing
asbestos deemed hazardous and unlawful by any Applicable Environmental Law) and
to remove the unlawful amounts of the same (or if removal is prohibited by law,
to take whatever action is required by law) promptly upon discovery at Tenant's
sole expense.  Tenant shall promptly notify Landlord in writing of any unlawful
disposal or other unlawful release of any hazardous substance, environmental
contaminants or solid wastes on or to the Premises or the Improvements.  In the
event Tenant fails to comply with or perform any of the foregoing covenants and
obligations, after thirty (30) days' prior written Notice to Tenant, Landlord
may, but shall be under no obligation to, cause the


                                       151


<PAGE>

Premises to be freed from the unlawful hazardous substance, unlawful solid waste
or unlawful environmental contaminants (or if removal is prohibited by law, to
take whatever action is required by law) and the reasonable cost of the removal
or such other action shall be a demand obligation owing by Tenant to Landlord
pursuant to this Lease. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord shall have no
right to cause the removal of such materials so long as Tenant both: (1) is
diligently and in good faith proceeding to comply with Tenant's obligation to
remove the unlawful amounts of such materials; and (2) has the financial ability
to so comply.  Subject to the foregoing, Tenant grants to Landlord and
Landlord's agents and employees access to the Premises, and the license to
remove the unlawful hazardous substance, unlawful solid waste or unlawful
environmental contaminants (or if removal is prohibited by law, to take whatever
action is required by law) and agrees to indemnify and save Landlord harmless
from all reasonable costs and expenses involved and from all claims (including
consequential damages) asserted or proven against Landlord by any party in
connection therewith.  Upon Landlord's reasonable request for "good cause"
(defined below), at any time and from time to time during the Term, Tenant will
provide at Tenant's sole expense an inspection or audit of the Premises from an
engineering or consulting firm approved by Landlord, indicating the
presence or absence of any hazardous substance, solid waste or environmental
contaminants located on the Premises.  If Tenant fails to provide same after
sixty (60) days' notice, Landlord may order same, and Tenant grants to Landlord
and Landlord's employees and agents access to the Premises and a license to
undertake any testing reasonably required to obtain such inspection or audit.
The reasonable cost of obtaining such inspection or audit and any expenses
incurred by Landlord in connection therewith, shall be a demand obligation owing
by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to this Lease.  For purposes of this Section
10.1(b)(2), "good cause" shall mean that Landlord shall have reasonable grounds
to believe that an unlawful release or unlawful disposal of hazardous substances
or solid wastes has occurred on the Premises.

     (c)  Compliance With Legal Requirements.  Tenant shall at all-times comply
with all material Legal Requirements applicable to the Land or the Improvements
and/or the use thereof.

     10.2 Contest of Legal Requirements.  Tenant shall have the right at its
sole cost and expense to contest the validity of any Legal Requirements
applicable to the Premises by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted in
good faith; and upon the request of Tenant and at Tenant's sole cost and
expense, Landlord will join and cooperate with Tenant in such proceedings.
Subject to Section 8.3, any other provision of this Lease to the contrary
notwithstanding, Tenant's right to contest Legal Requirements must be exercised
in such a manner as to avoid any exposure of the Premises or any part thereof to
foreclosure or execution sale or exposure of Landlord to civil or criminal
penalties arising from Tenant's non-compliance with such Legal Requirements.
Tenant shall defend and indemnify Landlord against, and hold Landlord harmless
from, any and all liability, loss, cost, damage, injury or expense (including,
without limitation, attorneys' fees and costs) which Landlord may sustain or
suffer by reason of Tenant's failure or delay in complying with, or Tenant's
contest of, any such Legal Requirements (or Landlord's


                                       152

<PAGE>

contest, if requested in writing by Tenant), and Tenant's duty to indemnify
Landlord under this Section 10.2 shall survive the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease.

                                   ARTICLE 11
                             UTILITIES AND SERVICES

     11.1 Services to the Premises.  At Tenant's sole cost and expense, Tenant
shall make its own arrangements for the provision of all utilities and services
to be provided to or consumed on the Premises, including, without limitation,
air conditioning, ventilation, heating, electric power, telephone, water (both
domestic and fire protection), sanitary sewer, storm drain, natural gas and
janitorial services, including for the installation, maintenance and repair of
service lines and meters to measure Tenant's consumption of such utilities.

                                   ARTICLE 12
               MAINTENANCE AND REPAIRS; SURRENDER OF THE PREMISES

     12.1 Tenant Obligations.  Except as otherwise provided in this Lease,
Tenant shall maintain the Premises and the Improvements in good repair, normal
wear and tear and casualty excepted.  All maintenance that Tenant is obligated
to perform under this Section 12.1 shall be at the sole expense of Tenant.

     12.2 Surrender of the Premises.  Except as provided in Article 20, upon the
expiration or earlier termination of the Term, Tenant shall surrender the
Premises to Landlord in its then "AS-IS" condition, including, without
limitation, any condition resulting from: (i) wear and tear; (ii) obsolescence
and damage by fire or other casualty, act of God or the elements (subject to the
terms of Article 17); (iii) damage that is caused by Landlord, its agents,
employees or contractors; and (iv) any improvements, alterations, additions,
repairs, replacements, or decorations in, to or of the Premises or on the Land
which are not Improvements but which Tenant may elect to remain on the Land or
the Premises.  Title to all improvements, furniture, furnishings, fixtures,
trade fixtures and personal property of Tenant which have not been funded by
Landlord pursuant to the terms of Article 6 and located in or upon the Premises
or the Land, whether or not affixed to the realty, shall be and remain in Tenant
throughout the Term, and at any time during the Term of this Lease, the same may
be removed by Tenant, or, at Tenant's election, surrendered with the Premises,
in which event title to such surrendered property shall, if Landlord so elects
in Landlord's sole discretion, be deemed transferred to Landlord.  Any of such
property that is not removed from the Premises or the Improvements on or prior
to the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease shall be considered
abandoned and Landlord may deal with it as Landlord elects.

                                   ARTICLE 13
                                      LIENS

     13.1 Except for claims that Tenant or Devcon, with Tenant's approval, is
contesting in good faith in such manner as to avoid any exposure of the Premises
or any part thereof to foreclosure or execution sale, Tenant shall promptly pay
and discharge all claims for work or labor done, supplies furnished or services
rendered to the Premises, and shall keep the Premises free and clear of all
mechanics' and materialmen's liens in connection therewith.



                                       153

<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE 14
                             ASSIGNMENT BY LANDLORD

     14.1 Further Mortgages or Encumbrances by Landlord.  Except for the SBLF
Deed of Trust (which is hereby approved by Tenant) and as specifically permitted
in Article 21 and in the Construction Management Agreement, Landlord shall not
cause or create any mortgages, deeds of trust, or encumbrances to exist with
respect to the Premises at any time.  Landlord agrees that it will not
materially modify the SBLF Deed of Trust nor will it cause any new bonds or
assessments to encumber the Premises without Tenant's approval which may be
withheld in Tenant's sole discretion.

     14.2 Landlord's Right to Sell.  Subject to Tenant's Purchase Option,
Landlord may not transfer all or any portion of its right, title and interest in
the Premises; provided, however that nothing contained in this Lease shall be
deemed in any way to limit, restrict or otherwise affect the right of Landlord
at any time and from time to time to sell or transfer all or any portion of its
right, title and estate in the Premises to: (1) a Landlord Affiliate; (2)
another financial institution or trust established by such an institution; or
(3) if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such
sale or transfer, to any Entity.  Any sale or transfer by Landlord whatsoever
shall by its express terms recognize and confirm the right of possession of
Tenant to the Premises and Tenant's other rights arising out of this Lease shall
not be affected or disturbed in any way by any such sale, transfer, assignment
or conveyance (except for any disturbance resulting from a foreclosure sale
conducted pursuant to the laws of the State of California at which independent
third party bids were permitted, pursuant to the SBLF Deed of Trust, all subject
to the terms of Section 21.3)

     14.3 Transfer of Funds and Property.  At each time Landlord sells, assigns,
transfers or conveys the entire right, title and estate of Landlord in the
Premises and in this Lease, Landlord shall turn over to the transferee any funds
or other property then held by Landlord under this Lease and thereupon all the
liabilities and obligations on the part of the Landlord under this Lease arising
after the effective date of such sale, assignment, transfer or conveyance shall
terminate as to the transferor and be binding upon the transferee.

                                   ARTICLE 15
                            ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLEASING

     15.1 Right to Assign.

     (a)  Tenant's Right.  Tenant shall have the right, at any time and from
time to time during the Term, to assign all or any portion of its right, title
and estate in the Premises and in this Lease without approval by Landlord.  Any
such assignee, immediate or remote, shall have the same right of assignment.
Any such assignment shall be evidenced by a written instrument, properly
executed and acknowledged by all parties thereto and, at Tenant's election, duly
recorded in the Official Records, wherein and whereby the assignee assumes all
of the obligations of Tenant under this Lease.  Notwithstanding any such
assignment and assumption or any sublease permitted under Section 15.2 hereof,
Tenant shall remain primarily liable for all obligations and liabilities on the
part of Tenant theretofore or thereafter arising under this Lease.


                                       154

<PAGE>

     (b) Notice.  Tenant shall, promptly after execution of each assignment,
notify Landlord of the name and mailing address of the assignee and shall, on
demand, permit Landlord to examine and copy the assignment agreement.

     15.2 Right to Sublet.

     (a)  Tenant's Right.  Tenant shall have the right, at any time and from
time to time during the Term, to sublet all or any portion of the Premises and
to extend, modify or renew any sublease without the approval of Landlord.

     (b)  Notice.  Tenant shall, promptly after execution of each sublease,
notify Landlord of the name and mailing address of the subtenant and shall, on
demand, permit Landlord to examine and copy the sublease.

     (c)  Non-Disturbance Agreement.  Upon Tenant's request, Landlord shall
enter into a "landlord agreement" with any subtenant of Tenant.  Such agreement
shall provide that Landlord shall recognize the sublease and not disturb the
subtenant's possession thereunder so long as such subtenant shall not be in
default under its sublease, and an Event of Default is not then in existence and
continuing under this Lease.  Tenant shall immediately reimburse Landlord on
demand for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Landlord
in complying with Landlord's obligations under this Section 15.2(c).

     15.3 Mortgage by Tenant.  Tenant shall not have the right to mortgage,
pledge or otherwise encumber all or any portion of the right, title and estate
of Tenant in the Premises or in this Lease, without the consent of Landlord.

                                   ARTICLE 16
                                 EMINENT DOMAIN

     16.1 Total or Substantial Taking.  If title or access is taken for any
public or quasi-public use, or under any statute or by right of condemnation or
eminent domain, or by sale in lieu thereof (a "Taking") with respect to all of
the Premises, or if title to so much of the Premises or access thereto is Taken,
or if the Premises or access thereto is damaged, blocked or impaired by the
Taking, so that, in Tenant's sole discretion, the Premises or access thereto,
even after a reasonable amount of reconstruction thereof, will no longer be
suitable for Tenant's (and/or Tenant's subtenants') continued occupancy for the
conduct of Tenant's (and/or Tenant's subtenants') business in a manner
consistent with the conduct of such business prior to such Taking, then in any
such event, this Lease shall terminate on the date of such Taking.

     16.2 Partial Taking.  If any part of the Premises, or access thereto, shall
be Taken, and the Premises or the remaining part thereof and access thereto will
be, in Tenant's sole discretion, suitable for Tenant's (and/or Tenant's
subtenants') continued occupancy for the conduct of Tenant's (and/or Tenant's
subtenants') business in a manner consistent with the conduct of such business
prior to such Taking, all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease
shall continue, except that Base Rent shall be adjusted to reflect the decreased
Lease Investment Balance remaining after application thereto of the award made
to Landlord for such Taking.


                                       155

<PAGE>

      16.3     Temporary Taking.  If the whole or any part of the Premises is
Taken for temporary use or occupancy, this Lease shall not terminate by reason
thereof and Tenant shall continue to pay, in the manner and at the times herein
specified, the full amount of the Base Rent payable by Tenant hereunder, and,
except only to the extent that Tenant may be prevented from so doing by reason
of such Taking, Tenant shall continue to perform and observe all of the other
terms, covenants and conditions hereof on the part of Tenant to be performed and
observed, as though the Taking had not occurred.  In the event of any such
temporary Taking, Tenant shall be entitled to receive the entire amount of the
award made for the Taking, whether paid by way of damages, rent or otherwise.
If the temporary Taking is for a term in excess of thirty (30) days, then the
Taking shall be treated as a permanent Taking and be governed by Sections 16.1
or 16.2, as applicable.

     16.4 Damages.  The compensation attributable to the Premises (in each case
the compensation or value shall be determined as of the date of the Taking)
awarded or paid upon any Taking (other than a temporary Taking, which shall be
governed by Section 16.3), whether awarded to Landlord, Tenant, or both of them,
shall be held by the Escrow Agent described in Section 17.3(b), and distributed
in the same manner as insurance proceeds pursuant to Section 17.3. For purposes
of this Section 16.4, references to the term "casualty" or similar terms in
Section 17.3 shall be deemed to refer to "Taking."

     16.5 Notice and Execution.  Immediately upon service of process upon
Landlord or Tenant in connection with any Taking relating to the Premises or any
portion thereof or access thereto, each party shall give the other Notice
thereof.  Each party agrees to execute and deliver to the other all instruments
that may be required to effectuate the provisions of this Article 16.  Tenant
reserves the right to appear in and to contest any proceedings in connection
with any such Taking.  Tenant shall immediately reimburse Landlord on demand for
all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in
complying with Landlord's obligations under this Section 16.5.

     16.6 Terms of Ground Lease.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing
provisions of this Article 16, Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that in the event
of any inconsistency between the foregoing terms of this Article 16 and Article
XI of the Ground Lease, the terms of Article XI of the Ground Lease shall
control; and Tenant shall have no right to terminate this Lease as a consequence
of a Taking unless Landlord shall also have the right to terminate the Ground
Lease as a consequence thereof (provided that Tenant may exercise the Purchase
Option under Section 20.1 at any time); Landlord shall not exercise any right to
terminate the Ground Lease without Tenant's prior approval, in Tenant's sole
discretion; Tenant shall restore the Premises to the extent provided in the
Ground Lease in the event this Lease and the Ground Lease are not terminated;
and the provisions of Section 16.4 above shall be applicable only to the
compensation allocated to the ground lessee under the terms of the Ground Lease
in the event of a Taking.

                                   ARTICLE 17
                              DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION


                                       156


<PAGE>

      17.1     Casualty.  If the Improvements are damaged or destroyed by fire
or other casualty, except as provided to the contrary in Section 17.2, this
Lease shall continue in full force and effect without any abatement or reduction
in Base Rent, and Tenant, at Tenant's election, shall either (a) restore the
Improvements substantially to their condition prior to the damage or
destruction, or such other condition as Tenant shall elect, subject to
Landlord's approval in accordance with the terms of Section 12 of the
Construction Management Agreement, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, or
(b) not restore the Improvements, but perform, or cause to be performed, at
Tenant's sole cost and expense, any work or service required by any Legal
Requirement for the protection of persons or property from any risk, or for the
abatement of any nuisance, created by or arising from the casualty or the damage
or destruction caused thereby.

     17.2 Termination of Lease.  In the case of: (a) any damage or casualty of
the Building, which in the good faith judgment of Tenant's Board of Directors
would render the Building either unsuitable or uneconomic for restoration or
continued use by Tenant; (b) the damage or destruction of all or substantially
all (as determined in good faith by Tenant's Board of Directors) of the
Building; or (c) the damage or destruction of the Building where restoration
cannot (as determined in good faith by Tenant's Board of Directors) reasonably
be completed either within 365 days or prior to the expiration of the
Term, then Tenant may elect to terminate this Lease.  In the event Tenant
terminates the Lease pursuant to the preceding sentence, Tenant shall purchase
Landlord's interest in the Premises for a purchase price equal to the Purchase
Price for the Premises as such Purchase Price is defined in Section 20. 1. The
purchase of Landlord's interest in the Premises shall be pursuant to the terms
of Section 20.1, as applicable to the Premises.  Upon the completion of such
purchase, this Lease and all obligations hereunder in respect of the Premises
shall terminate.

     17.3 Insurance Proceeds.  In the event of any fire or other casualty, the
proceeds of any insurance policies maintained by Tenant pursuant to Section 9.2
or 9.3 shall be held, applied and dealt with as follows:

     (a)  Any proceeds (per occurrence) of such policies attributable to the
Improvements below the amount of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000)
or any proceeds directly attributable to improvements constructed on the
Property by Tenant solely with its own funds shall be paid directly to Tenant
and applied and used as Tenant may direct in its sole discretion for any
construction, restoration or reconstruction purposes in connection with any
improvements located on the Land which were destroyed, damaged or affected by
such casualty.  Any portion of such proceeds which Tenant does not want to use
(subject to the terms of Section 17.3(c)) for any construction, restoration or
reconstruction shall be paid as follows (the order of payment as set forth below
shall be the "Distribution Formula"): (1) to Landlord (but only to the extent of
the then-existing Lease Investment Balance); and (2) with any remaining excess
to be paid to Tenant.

     (b)  Any proceeds (per occurrence) of such policies attributable to the
Improvements greater than Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000) shall be
paid


                                       157


<PAGE>

to an escrow agent ("Escrow Agent") mutually agreeable to the parties (but such
escrow agent shall not be a party which is related to or affiliated with either
of the parties to this Lease, but shall be bound by the terms of this Article
17).  Such proceeds shall be invested by the Escrow Agent as Tenant may direct
(provided, however, that such proceeds may not be invested in any securities or
any debt obligations issued by Tenant).  Such proceeds shall be paid by the
Escrow Agent to Tenant (or to third parties as Tenant may direct), as Tenant may
direct from time to time as restoration, construction or rebuilding progresses
to pay the cost of any restoration, construction or rebuilding which Tenant
elects to take place on the Land or any Improvements located upon the Land, so
long as Landlord reasonably determines that the following conditions are
satisfied at the time of such request for payment by Tenant: (i) the sum
requested has been paid or is then due and payable or will become due and
payable within thirty (30) days; (ii) Tenant has the financial ability
(taking into account the insurance proceeds held by the Escrow Agent) to
complete the restoration, construction or rebuilding which Tenant has elected to
perform; (iii) Landlord has approved the plans, if any, relating to the
restoration of Improvements; and (iv) in Landlord's reasonable judgment, such
restoration work which Tenant desires to perform in connection with the
Improvements can be completed prior to the expiration of the Term. Landlord
shall promptly upon request instruct the Escrow Agent to make the payments
requested by Tenant unless one of the four (4) conditions described above is not
satisfied at the time of such request.  Any excess insurance proceeds existing
after either Tenant's completion of the restoration, construction or rebuilding
which Tenant elects to perform or Tenant's failure to comply with the funding
condition described in subitems (ii), (iii) and (iv) immediately above in this
Section 17.3(b), shall be paid pursuant to the Distribution Formula.  If Tenant
elects to terminate this Lease, Tenant may use any insurance proceeds to pay the
Purchase Price described in Section 17.2, and all rights of Landlord in
insurance proceeds not used to pay the Purchase Price shall be assigned to
Tenant by Landlord at the time Tenant purchases Landlord's interest in the
Premises.

     (c)  If either: (1) Tenant has not delivered written notice to Landlord
within ninety (90) days after reaching final written settlement with all
insurance companies regarding the amount of proceeds to be paid for the casualty
in question, pursuant to which notice Tenant elects to either exercise some or
all  of  its  termination  rights  under Section 17.2 and/or to fully or
partially repair or restore pursuant to Section 17. 1; or (2) Landlord
reasonably believes that Tenant has abandoned reconstruction or restoration work
which Tenant may have elected to perform (and Tenant shall have failed to
diligently recommence reconstruction or restoration work which Tenant is then
able to perform within thirty (30) days after Tenant's receipt from Landlord of
a Notice of Landlord's belief of Tenant's abandonment of the reconstruction or
restoration work); then, in either case, the proceeds attributable to the
Improvements shall be paid pursuant to the Distribution Formula.

     (d)  Any insurance proceeds paid to Landlord under this Article 17 shall
reduce the Lease Investment Balance by a like amount.

     17.4      Terms of Ground Lease.  Notwithstanding any of the foregoing

                                       158


<PAGE>

provisions of this Article 17, Landlord and Tenant acknowledge that in the event
of any inconsistency between the foregoing terms of this Article 17 and Section
8.02 of the Ground Lease, the terms of Section 8.02 of the Ground Lease shall
control; and Tenant shall have no right to terminate this Lease as a consequence
of any damage or destruction unless Landlord shall also have the right to
terminate the Ground Lease as a consequence thereof (provided that Tenant may
exercise the Purchase Option under Section 20.1 at any time); Landlord shall not
exercise any right to terminate the Ground Lease without Tenant's prior
approval, in Tenant's sole discretion; Tenant shall restore or rebuild the
Premises in the manner and subject to the terms of the Ground Lease in the event
this Lease and the Ground Lease are not terminated; and the provisions regarding
the application of insurance proceeds provided for in Section 17.3 above shall
be subject to the terms of Section 8.02 of the Ground Lease and the allocation
of insurance proceeds between the ground lessor and ground lessee provided for
therein.

                                   ARTICLE 18
                                     DEFAULT

     18.1 Default.  Each of the following events shall constitute an event of
default ("Event of Default") by Tenant:

     (a)  Failure to Pay Base Rent.  Tenant's failure to pay any Base Rent
within ten (10) days after the due date.

     (b)  Failure to Pay Additional Rent.  Tenant's failure to pay any
Additional Rent which is due to Landlord within ten (10) days after the due date
under this Lease (which due date shall be the date of Tenant's receipt of Notice
from Landlord that such Additional Rent is due).

     (c)  Failure to Carry Insurance.  Tenant's failure to carry any policy of
insurance required by Article 9.

     (d)  Insolvency.  Subject to Section 18.2, the occurrence of: (i) an
assignment by Tenant for the benefit of creditors generally; or (ii) the filing
of a voluntary or involuntary petition by or against Tenant under any present or
future applicable federal, state or other statute or law having for its purpose
the adjudication of Tenant as a bankrupt; (iii) the appointment of a receiver,
liquidator or trustee for all or a substantial portion of the Premises by reason
of the insolvency or alleged insolvency of Tenant; or (iv) the taking of
possession by any department of city, county, state or federal government, or
any officer thereof duly authorized, of all or a substantial portion of the
Premises by reason of the insolvency or alleged insolvency of Tenant; and
Tenant's failure to timely give any Notice it is permitted to give pursuant to
Section 18.2 (or, in the event Tenant gives timely Notice and pursues a contest
under Section 18.2, Tenant's failure to finally prevail in the contest).

     (e)  Failure to Replenish Under Pledge Agreement.  Tenant's failure to
replenish the collateral under the Pledge Agreement (as defined in Section 2.3
1) after the notice and cure periods provided in the Pledge Agreement.


                                       159


<PAGE>

     (f) Default Under A Credit Facility.  A payment default, which has not
been waived and is continuing (after expiration of applicable notice and cure
periods) under any credit facility of Tenant of One Million Dollars
($1,000,000) or more.

     (g)  Financial Covenants.  The occurrence of any of the following:

          1)    Tenant's "Total Debt" (as defined herein) divided by
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth (as defined below) (with both determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied)
exceeds 2:1. As used herein the term "Total Debt" shall mean, the total of all
items of indebtedness, obligation or liability as shown on Tenant's consolidated
financial statements.

          2)   Tenant fails to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at
least 1:1 times for each fiscal quarter on an annualized basis.  The ratio will
be defined as net income plus interest, taxes, and rent expense divided by the
sum of taxes, interest, rent expense and CPLTD (current portion of long-term
debt).

          3)    Tenant's "Consolidated Tangible Net Worth" as defined herein
shall fall below Two Hundred Twenty Million Dollars ($220,000,000.00). As used
herein, the term "Consolidated Tangible Net Worth" means the excess of total
assets over total liabilities of Tenant and its Subsidiaries determined in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated
basis, excluding, however, from the determination of total assets (i) all assets
which would be classified as intangible assets under generally accepted
accounting principles, including, without limitation, goodwill (whether
representing the excess cost over book value of assets acquired or otherwise),
patents, trademarks, trade names, copyrights, franchises and deferred charges
(including, without limitation, unamortized debt discount and expense,
organization costs and research and product development costs), and (ii) to the
extent not already deducted from total assets, reserves for depreciation,
depletion, obsolescence and/or amortization of properties and all other reserves
or appropriation of retained earnings which, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, should be established in connection with the
business conducted.

     (h)  Construction Management Agreement.  A material breach by Tenant of its
obligations under the Construction Management Agreement.

     (i)  Termination Option.  If Tenant exercises the Termination Option
pursuant to Section 20.2 below, Tenant's failure to sell the Premises at the end
of the Term as provided in Section 20.2.

     18.2 Contest by Tenant.  If upon the filing of any involuntary petition of
the type described in Section 18.1(d) or upon the appointment of a receiver,
other than a receiver appointed in any voluntary proceeding referred to in
Section 18.1(d), or the taking of possession of all or a substantial portion
of the Premises by any department of the city, county, state or federal
government, or any officer thereof duly authorized, by reason of the alleged
insolvency of Tenant without the consent or over the objection of Tenant, should
Tenant desire to contest the same in good faith, Tenant shall, within ninety
(90)


                                       160

<PAGE>

days after the filing of the petition or after the appointment or taking of
possession, give Notice to Landlord that Tenant proposes to make the contest,
and the same shall not constitute an Event of Default so long as Tenant shall
prosecute the proceedings with due diligence and no part of the Premises shall
be exposed to sale by reason of the continuance of the contest.

     18.3 Remedies.  Landlord shall have the remedies specified below:

     (a)  Continue Lease.  In connection with an Event of Default, Landlord
shall have the right to enforce, by suit or otherwise, all other covenants and
conditions hereof to be performed or complied with by Tenant and to exercise all
other remedies permitted by Section 1951.4 of the California Civil Code, or any
amendments thereof.  Landlord has the remedy described in California Civil Code
Section 1951.4 (Landlord may continue the Lease in effect after Tenant's breach
and abandonment and recover Base Rent as it becomes due, if Tenant has right to
sublet or assign, subject only to reasonable limitation).  Upon application by
Landlord, a receiver may be appointed to take possession of the Premises and
exercise all rights granted to Landlord as set forth in this Section 18.3.

     (b)  Terminate Lease.  In connection with an Event of Default, Landlord may
terminate this Lease, by giving Tenant Notice thereof, at any time after the
occurrence of such Event of Default and whether or not Landlord has also
exercised any right under Section 18.2. In such event Tenant shall be obligated
to purchase the Premises for an amount equal to the Purchase Price described in
the Purchase Option contained in Section 20.1 below (that is, all accrued Base
Rent, Additional Rent and the Lease Investment Balance).  Landlord shall also
have its other remedies at law (including its rights under the SBLF Deed of
Trust), provided, however, that Tenant's right to purchase the Premises pursuant
to Section 20.1 shall survive any termination of this Lease up through the date
of foreclosure sale under the SBLF Deed of Trust.

     (c)  Landlord's Continuing Obligation to Sell.  Except in the case of a
foreclosure under the SBLF Deed of Trust, in the event Landlord obtains
possession of the Premises pursuant to the terms of this Lease (because of
Tenant's default, lease expiration, or otherwise), Landlord shall be under a
continuing obligation to use its commercially reasonable efforts to sell the
Premises to one or more unrelated third parties; provided, however, that
Landlord shall not be required to sell or attempt to sell any portion of the
Premises (i) in a manner, or under circumstances, that could materially impair
Landlord's ability to enforce any of its rights or remedies under this Lease (as
determined in Landlord's sole discretion) or (ii) at a time when market
conditions render it inadvisable to sell or attempt to sell the Premises (as
determined in Landlord's sole discretion).  Upon the occurrence of any such sale
Landlord shall be obligated to pay to Tenant any excess of the amount realized
by Landlord in connection with such sale over the Purchase Price as defined in
Section 20.1 below.  For purposes of the preceding sentence, the amount realized
by Landlord upon a sale of the Premises shall be net of Landlord's sale expenses
and other expenses incurred by Landlord but required to be paid
by Tenant pursuant to Section 20.1(c)(iv).  Landlord's obligation to pay such
excess to Tenant shall survive any termination of this Lease.



                                       161


<PAGE>

      18.4 No Waiver.  No failure by Landlord or Tenant to insist upon the
strict performance of any term, covenant or condition of this Lease or to
exercise any right or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof and no acceptance
of full or partial Rent during the continuance of any breach shall constitute a
waiver of any such breach or of the term, covenant, or condition.  No term,
covenant or condition of this Lease to be performed or complied with by Tenant
or Landlord, and no breach thereof, shall be waived, terminated, altered or
modified except by a written instrument executed by Landlord and Tenant.  No
waiver of any breach shall affect or alter this Lease, but each and every term,
covenant, and condition of this Lease shall continue in full force and effect
with respect to any other then existing subsequent breach thereof.

     18.5 Effect of Assignment.  Notwithstanding an Entity's prior assignment or
transfer of its interest as Tenant under this Lease, so long as Landlord has
been given Notice of such assignment pursuant to Sections 15.1 and 22.3,
Landlord shall give such Entity copies of all Notices required by this Article
18 in connection with any Event of Default, and such Entity shall have the
period granted hereunder to Tenant to cure such Event of Default, unless such
Entity shall have been released from all obligations arising under this Lease.
Landlord may not assert any rights against such Entity in the absence of such
Notice and opportunity to cure, so long as Landlord has been given Notice of
such assignment pursuant to Sections 15.1 and 22.3.

     18.6 Landlord Cure Right.  If Tenant fails to perform any covenant or
agreement to be performed by Tenant under this Lease, and if the failure or
default continues for thirty (30) days after Notice to Tenant (except for
emergencies and except for payment of any lien or encumbrance threatening the
imminent sale of the Premises or any portion thereof, in which case payment or
cure may be made as soon as necessary to minimize the damage to person or
property caused by such emergency or to prevent any such sale), Landlord may,
but shall have no obligation to, pay the same and cure such default on behalf of
and at the expense of Tenant and do all reasonably necessary work and make all
reasonably necessary payments in connection therewith including, but not limited
to, the payment of reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements incurred by
Landlord.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord shall have no right to cure
any such failure to perform by Tenant so long as Tenant: (1) is diligently and
in good faith attempting to cure such matter and prosecuting such cure to
completion; (2) has the financial ability to so comply; and (3) commenced cure
of such matter within thirty (30) days after Tenant's receipt of Notice thereof
from Landlord.  Failure by Tenant to comply with the above shall allow Landlord
to commence in a reasonable and customary manner and in good faith to attempt to
cure such matter.  Upon demand, Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for the
reasonable amount so paid, together with interest at the Default Rate from
the date incurred until the date repaid.

     18.7 Landlord's Default.  If Landlord fails to perform any covenant or
agreement to be performed by Landlord under Article 6, Section 14.1, Section
16.4, Article 20, Article 21, or Section 22.8 of this Lease (including, but not
limited to, Landlord's failure to keep the Premises free of any and all liens
created by or through Landlord except as approved by Tenant in writing), and if
the failure or default continues for thirty (30) days after Notice to Landlord
(except for emergencies and except for


                                       162

<PAGE>

payment of any lien or encumbrance threatening the imminent sale of the Premises
or any portion thereof, in which case payment or cure may be made as soon as
necessary to minimize the damage to person or property caused by such emergency
or to prevent any such sale), Tenant may, but shall have no obligation to, pay
the same and cure such default on behalf of and, so long as such failure to
perform arises due to Landlord's gross negligence, willful misconduct, or
willful breach of this Lease, at the expense of Landlord and do all reasonably
necessary work and make all reasonably necessary payments in connection
therewith including, but not limited to, the payment of reasonable attorneys'
fees and disbursements incurred by Tenant.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
Tenant shall have no right to cure any such failure to perform by Landlord so
long as Landlord is diligently and in good faith attempting to cure such matter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Landlord's liability under this Lease
shall in all events be limited as provided in Section 22.14 below.

                                    ARTICLE s
                                 QUIET ENJOYMENT

     19.1 Quiet Enjoyment.  Landlord covenants to secure to Tenant the quiet
possession of the Premises for the full Term against all persons claiming the
same, by, through or in the right of Landlord, subject to Landlord's rights and
remedies under Section 18 upon an Event of Default by Tenant.  The existence of
any Permitted Title Exceptions shall not be deemed to constitute a breach of
Landlord's obligations hereunder. Tenant shall, immediately upon demand,
reimburse Landlord for all reasonable costs, expenses and damages incurred or
paid by Landlord in the performance of Landlord's obligations under this Article
19 (except for any costs, expenses or damages arising from Landlord's willful
breach of this Lease).  Landlord agrees that, so long as no Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing, Landlord shall not exercise the right to terminate
the Ground Lease specified in Section 1204 of the Ground Lease.

                                   ARTICLE 20
                    TENANT'S OPTION TO PURCHASE OR TERMINATE

     20.1 Option To Purchase Premises.

     (a)  Purchase Option.  At any time during the Term, Tenant shall have the
option ("Purchase Option") to purchase all of the then-existing Premises.  The
purchase price ("Purchase Price") for the Premises shall be the sum of accrued
and unpaid Base Rent, any accrued and unpaid Additional Rent, plus the Lease
Investment Balance.

     (b)  Purchase Option Exercise Notice.  If Tenant desires to exercise the
Purchase Option, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord thirty (30) days prior written
notice ("Purchase Option Exercise Notice") of Tenant's election.

     (c)  Transfer.  If Tenant exercises the Purchase Option, the purchase and
sale of the Premises shall be consummated as follows:

          (i)  Landlord shall grant and convey the Premises to Tenant, its
authorized agent or assignee, pursuant to a duly executed and acknowledged
assignment


                                       163


<PAGE>

and assumption of leasehold interest (as to the Land) and a grant deed as to the
Improvements (collectively herein the "Deed"), free and clear of all title
defects, liens, encumbrances, deeds of trust, mortgages, rights-of-way and
restrictive covenants or conditions, of record, placed against the Premises by
Landlord except for the Permitted Title Exceptions (excluding the SBLF Deed of
Trust), and any UCC-1 filed or recorded which evidence security interests
encumbering the Premises or any part thereof in favor of SBLF, which security
interests SBLF shall cause to be released so that they no longer affect the
Premises).

          (ii) The Purchase Price shall be paid upon delivery of the Deed and
any other documents reasonably requested by Tenant to evidence the transfer of
the Premises subject to the Permitted Title Exceptions (excluding the SBLF Deed
of Trust, and any UCC-1 filed or recorded which evidence security interests
encumbering the Premises or any part thereof in favor of SBLF, which security
interests SBLF shall cause to be released so that they no longer affect the
Premises) ("Additional Documents").  In the event that Tenant elects to assign
the Purchase Option pursuant to Section 20.1 (d) below, and Tenant's assignee
pays an amount less than the Purchase Price for the Premises, Tenant shall pay
to Landlord any excess of the Purchase Price over the amount paid by such
assignee.  Landlord shall deliver the Deed and the Additional Documents to
Tenant on the date for closing specified by Tenant in the Purchase Option
Exercise Notice.  The closing shall take place at the location and in the manner
reasonably set forth by Tenant in the Purchase Option Exercise Notice.  Landlord
and Tenant agree to cooperate to establish a concurrent closing and release of
the security interests so that the Collateral may be used to pay the Purchase
Price, if required.

          (iii)     If Landlord shall fail to cause title to be in the condition
required in Section 20.1(c)(i) above within the time herein prescribed for the
delivery of the Deed, then Tenant shall have the right (in addition to all other
rights provided by law) by a written notice to Landlord: (1) to extend the time
in which Landlord shall clear title and deliver the Deed and Additional
Documents, during which extension this Lease shall remain in full force and
effect, except Tenant shall be released from its obligation to pay Base Rent
during the extension; (2) to accept delivery of the Deed and Additional
Documents subject to such title defects, liens, encumbrances, deeds of trust,
mortgages, rights-of-way and restrictive covenants or conditions specified and
set forth in the Deed and not cleared by Landlord; (3) to rescind, by notice to
Landlord and without any penalty or liability therefor, any and all obligations
Tenant may have under and by virtue of the Purchase Option or the exercise
thereof, whereupon this Lease shall remain in full force and effect; (4) if the
title exception is curable by the payment of money, Tenant may make such payment
and such payment shall be a credit against the Purchase Price in favor of
Tenant.

          (iv) Base Rent shall be prorated and paid and all Additional Rent
which is then due and payable shall be paid as of the date title to the Premises
is vested of record in Tenant.  Tenant shall pay the escrow fees; the recorder's
fee for recording the Deed; the premium for the title insurance policy; all
documentary transfer taxes; Tenant's attorneys' fees; Landlord's reasonable
attorneys' fees; all other costs and expenses incurred by Tenant in consummating
the transfer of the Premises; and all reasonable expenses (except as specified
in the next sentence) incurred by Landlord in consummating the transfer of the
Premises pursuant to this Section 20.1. Landlord shall pay the costs and
expenses of clearing title as required by Section 20. 1 (c)(i).


                                       164


<PAGE>

      (d) Assignment.  Tenant shall have the right, without Landlord's consent,
to assign this purchase option, in whole, to any Entity at any time, whether or
not Tenant also assigns its interest in the Lease.

     20.2      Termination Option.

     (a)   Notice. Provided that no Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing, no later than six (6) months prior to the expiration of the Term,
Tenant may notify Landlord in writing of its election to exercise an option
("Termination Option") to sell the Premises; provided, however that at any time
Tenant can rescind its election to exercise its Termination Option if it then
exercises its Purchase Option pursuant to Section 20.1 above.  The six (6) month
period is referred to herein as the "Sales Period".


     (b)   Termination Option.  After giving the notice set forth in section (a)
above Tenant shall then use its best efforts to sell the Premises for cash to a
third party purchaser (who is not an affiliate of Tenant within the meaning of
Rule 405 under the Securities Act of 1933) and, if the Premises are not conveyed
to such purchaser prior to the expiration of the Term, Tenant shall have no
further right to sell the Premises, the Lease shall terminate, Tenant shall
immediately vacate the Premises, and quitclaim all interest of Tenant, if any,
therein to Landlord.

     (c)   Termination Option Procedures.  In the event that Tenant elects the
Termination Option, Tenant shall use its best efforts throughout the Sales
Period to obtain a purchaser (who is not an affiliate of Tenant as described
above) for the Premises.  Tenant shall have the exclusive right to market the
Premises during the first four (4) months of the Sales Period (the "Exclusive
Period").  Landlord may direct Tenant to hire and pay for no more than one (1)
commission sales agent after the expiration of the Exclusive Period.  Except as
otherwise provided below, any sale by Tenant shall be for the highest cash bid
submitted to Tenant, including any cash bid submitted by Landlord.  The
determination of the highest bid shall be made by Landlord prior to the end of
the Sales Period.  After the end of the Exclusive Period, Landlord may accept
any bid solicited by Landlord, Tenant or its agent, in which case Tenant's sales
effort may be suspended until the earlier of the closing of such sale on the
last day of the Term or revocation or rejection of such cash bid.
Notwithstanding the above provisions, Tenant may (i) accept during the Exclusive
Period any cash bid (net of expenses of sale) which exceeds the Lease Investment
Balance, and (ii) rescind the Termination Option at any time so long as it is
exercising its Purchase Option, which shall be prior and superior to an accepted
offer from a third party.  If Landlord undertakes any sales efforts, Tenant
shall promptly reimburse Landlord for any reasonable charges, costs and expenses
incurred in such effort, including any commissions, allocated time charges,
costs and expenses of internal counsel, external counsel or other attorneys'
fees.

     (d)   Payments under Termination Option.  If Tenant elects the Termination
Option, Tenant shall pay to Landlord on the last day of the Term in immediately
available funds any Base Rent or Additional Rent due and owing under the Lease.
Except as provided in Section 20.2(e), the proceeds (the "Proceeds") of any sale
of the Premises pursuant to the Termination Option shall be paid to Landlord
upon any such sale without


                                       165


<PAGE>

deductions, and not later than the expiration of the Lease Term.

     (e)   Procedures Upon Sale under the Termination Option.  Any sale pursuant
to the Termination Option shall be consummated on the last day of the Term.  To
the extent the Proceeds exceed the Lease Investment Balance, such excess shall
be paid out of escrow to Tenant.  Upon payment to Landlord of all amounts due it
under this Lease, Landlord shall execute and deliver to the purchaser of the
Premises a grant deed in the same manner and subject to the same conditions and
obligations as are set forth in Section 20.1(c) above and have the same
obligation to deliver title and remove exceptions as set forth in said Section.
Except as provided in the second sentence of this subparagraph, the Proceeds
shall be applied first to the Lease Investment Balance, Tenant shall reimburse
Landlord for the difference between the Lease Investment Balance (calculated
immediately prior to receipt of the Proceeds) and the Proceeds, up to the amount
of the Guaranteed Residual Value, and Landlord shall have no claim whatsoever to
the Proceeds in excess of such amount upon receipt of such Proceeds.

                                   ARTICLE 21
                              COVENANTS OF LANDLORD

     21.1 Title.  In the event Tenant so requests in writing (and so long as
either Tenant agrees to indemnify Landlord from any liabilities or obligations
in connection therewith, or Landlord does not incur any liabilities or
obligations in connection therewith), Landlord shall execute all documents,
instruments and agreements reasonably requested by Tenant in order to accomplish
any of the following in the manner reasonably requested by Tenant and within the
time parameters reasonably requested by Tenant: (1) remove exceptions to title
to or affecting the Premises; (2) create exceptions to title (including, without
limitation, easements and rights of way) to or affecting the Premises; or (3)
modify any then-existing exception to title.  Tenant shall promptly reimburse
Landlord for, or at Landlord's request, pay directly in advance, all reasonable
costs, expenses and other amounts incurred or required to be expended by
Landlord in order to comply with Tenant's requests made in accordance with the
preceding sentence, and the failure of Tenant to reimburse or pay any such
amounts shall result in the suspension of Landlord's obligations under such
sentence with respect to that particular request until the amounts required to
be paid by Tenant under this sentence have been paid.

     21.2 Land Use.  Except where requested by Tenant pursuant to this Section
21.2, Landlord shall not cause or give its written consent to any land use or
zoning change affecting the Premises or any changes of street grade.  In the
event Tenant so requests in writing (and so long as either Tenant agrees to
indemnify Landlord from any liabilities or obligations in connection therewith,
or Landlord does not incur any liabilities or obligations in connection
therewith), Landlord shall execute all documents, instruments and agreements
reasonably requested by Tenant in order to accomplish any of the following in
the manner reasonably requested by Tenant and within the time parameters
reasonably requested by Tenant: (1) cause a change in any land use restriction
or law affecting the Premises; (2) cause a change in the zoning affecting the
Premises; or (3)


                                       166


<PAGE>

cause a change in the street grade with respect to any street in the vicinity of
the Premises. Tenant shall promptly reimburse Landlord for, or at Landlord's
request, pay directly in advance, all reasonable costs, expenses and other
amounts incurred or required to be expended by Landlord in order to comply with
Tenant's requests made in accordance with the preceding sentence, and the
failure of Tenant to reimburse or pay any such amounts shall result in the
suspension of Landlord's obligations under such sentence with respect to that
particular request until the amounts required to be paid by Tenant under this
sentence have been paid.

     21.3 Transfer of Property Interests.  Except as requested by Tenant
pursuant to this Lease, Landlord shall not transfer to any third party any
rights inuring to or benefits associated with the Premises (including, without
limitation, zoning rights, development rights, air space rights, mineral, oil,
gas or water rights).  Nothing in this Section shall limit Landlord's rights
pursuant to Section 14.2; provided that any purchaser of Landlord's interest in
the Premises shall be bound by the terms of this Lease, including without
limitation the terms of this Section 21.3).

                                   ARTICLE 22
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     22.1 Relationship.  Neither this Lease nor any agreements or transactions
contemplated hereby shall in any respect be interpreted, deemed or construed as
constituting Landlord and Tenant as partners or joint venturers, one with the
other, or as creating any partnership, joint venture, association or, except as
set forth in Section 22.2 below, any other relationship other than that of
landlord and tenant: and, except as set forth in Section 22.2 below, both
Landlord and Tenant agree not to make any contrary assertion, contention, claim
or counterclaim in any action, suit or other legal proceeding involving either
Landlord or Tenant or the subject matter of this Lease.

     22.2 Form of Transaction: Certain Tax Matters.

     (a)  Landlord and Tenant hereby agree and declare that the transactions
contemplated by this Lease are intended to constitute, both as to matters of
form and substance:

          (i)  an operating lease for financial accounting purposes, and

          (ii) a financing arrangement (and not a "true lease") for
purposes of Federal, state and local income, property or other forms of tax.

Accordingly, and notwithstanding any other provision of this Lease to the
contrary, Landlord and Tenant agree and declare that (A) the transactions
contemplated hereby are intended to have a dual, rather than single, form and
(B) all references in this Lease to the "Lease" of the Premises which fail to
reference such dual form do so as a matter of convenience only and do not
reflect the intent of Landlord and Tenant as to the true form of such
arrangements.

     (b)  Landlord and Tenant agree that, in accordance with their intentions
and the substance of the transactions contemplated hereby, Tenant (and not
Landlord) shall


                                       167


<PAGE>

be treated as the owner of the Premises for Federal, state, local income and
property tax purposes and this Lease shall be treated as a financing
arrangement.  Tenant shall be entitled to take any deduction, credit allowance
or other reporting, filing or other tax position consistent with such
characterizations.  Landlord shall not file any Federal, state or local income
tax returns, reports or other statements in a manner which is inconsistent with
the foregoing provisions of this Section 22.2.

     (c)  Tenant acknowledges that it has retained accounting, tax and legal
advisors to assist it in structuring this Lease and Tenant is not relying on any
representations of Landlord regarding the proper treatment of this transaction
for accounting, income tax or any other Purpose.

     22.3 Notices.  Each Notice shall be in writing and shall be sent by
personal delivery, overnight courier (charges prepaid or billed to the sender)
or by the deposit of such with the United States Postal Service, or any official
successor thereto, designated as registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, bearing adequate postage and in each case addressed as provided in
the Basic Lease Provisions.  Each Notice shall be effective upon being
personally delivered or actually received.  The time period in which a response
to any such Notice must be given or any action taken with respect thereto shall
commence to run from the date of personal delivery or receipt of the Notice by
the addressee thereof, as reflected on the return receipt of the Notice.
Rejection or other refusal to accept shall be deemed to be receipt of the Notice
sent.  By giving to the other party at least thirty (30) days' prior Notice
thereof, either party to this Lease shall have the right from time to time
during the Term of this Lease to change the address(es) thereof and to specify
as the address(es) thereof any other address(es) within the continental United
States of America.

     22.4 Severability of Provisions.  If any term, covenant or condition of
this Lease, or the application thereof to any Entity or circumstance, shall be
invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease, or the application of
such term, covenant or condition to Entities or circumstances other than those
as to which it is invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby.

     22.5 Entire Agreement: Amendment.  This Lease constitutes the entire
agreement of Landlord and Tenant with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Neither this Lease nor any provision hereof may be changed, waived, discharged
or terminated orally, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party
against whom enforcement of the change, waiver, discharge or termination is
sought.

     22.6 Memorandum of Sublease of the Land and Lease of the Improvements.
Neither party shall record this Lease.  However, concurrently with the execution
of this Lease, Landlord and Tenant have executed a Memorandum of Sublease of the
Land and Lease of the Improvements ("Memorandum of Lease") in the form attached
hereto as Exhibit E and by this reference made a part hereof, which Memorandum
of Lease shall be promptly recorded in the Official Records.

     22.7 Successors and Assigns.  Subject to Articles 14 and 15, this Lease
shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Landlord and Tenant and their
respective heirs,


                                       168


<PAGE>

executors, legal representatives, successors and assigns.  Whenever in this
Lease a reference to any Entity is made, such reference shall be deemed to
include a reference to the heirs, executors, legal representatives, successors
and assigns of such Entity.

     22.8 Commissions.  Landlord and Tenant each represent and warrant that
except as provided below, neither has dealt with any broker in connection with
this transaction and that no real estate broker, salesperson or finder has the
right to claim a real estate brokerage, salesperson's commission or finder's fee
by reason of contact between the parties brought about by such broker,
salesperson or finder.  Each party shall hold and save the other harmless of and
from any and all loss, cost, damage, injury or expense arising out of or in any
way related to claims for real estate broker's or salesperson's commissions or
fees based upon allegations made by the claimant that it is entitled to such a
fee from the indemnified party arising out of contact with the indemnifying
party or alleged introductions of the indemnifying party to the indemnified
party.  Landlord acknowledges that it is responsible for the payment of a
commission to Pacific Union Financial Services in connection with this Lease,
which amount shall not be reimbursable to Landlord by Tenant or otherwise added
to the Lease Investment Balance.

     22.9 Attorneys' Fees.  In the event any action is brought by Landlord or
Tenant against the other to enforce or for the breach of any of the terms,
covenants or conditions contained in this Lease, the prevailing party shall be
entitled to recover reasonable attorneys' fees to be fixed by the court,
together with costs of suit therein incurred.  Tenant shall pay the reasonable
attorneys' fees incurred by Landlord for the review and negotiation of this
Lease.

     22.10 Governing Law.  This Lease and the obligations of the parties
hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted, construed and enforced in
accordance with the laws of the State of California.

     22.11 Counterparts.  This Lease may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
together shall comprise but a single instrument.

     22.12 Time Is of the Essence.  Time is of the essence of this Lease, and of
each provision hereof.

     22.13 No Third Party Beneficiaries.  This Lease is entered into by Landlord
and Tenant for the sole benefit of Landlord and Tenant.  There are no third
party beneficiaries to this Lease.

     22.14 Limitations on Recourse.  The obligations of Tenant and Landlord
under this Lease shall be without recourse to any partner, officer, trustee,
beneficiary, shareholder, director or employee of Tenant or Landlord.  Except
for the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord, or for breach of
Landlord's obligation to fund pursuant to Article 6 above, Landlord's liability
to Tenant for any default by Landlord under this Lease: (1) shall be limited to
Landlord's equity in the Premises; and (2) shall extend to any actual damages of
Tenant, but shall not extend to any foreseeable and unforeseeable consequential
damages.

     22.15 Estoppel Certificates.  Within thirty (30) days after request
therefor by


                                       169



<PAGE>

either party, the non-requesting party shall deliver, in recordable form, a
certificate to any proposed mortgagee, purchaser, sublessee or assignee and to
the requesting party, certifying (if such be the case) that this Lease is in
full force and effect, the date of Tenant's most recent payment of Rent, that,
to the best of its knowledge, the non-requesting party has no defenses or
offsets outstanding, or stating those claimed, and any other information
reasonably requested.  Failure to deliver said statement in time shall
be conclusive upon the non-requesting party that: (a) this Lease is in full
force and effect, without modification except as may be represented by the
requesting party; (b) there are no uncured defaults in the requesting party's
performance and the non-requesting party has no right of offset, counterclaim or
deduction against the non-requesting party's obligations hereunder; (c) no more
than one month's Base Rent has been paid in advance; and (d) any other matters
reasonably requested in such certificate.

     22.16 Collateral.  The parties acknowledge that Tenant has pledged certain
collateral ("Collateral") to Landlord to secure Tenant's obligations pursuant to
the Pledge Agreement.  If Landlord applies any of the Collateral to satisfy an
obligation hereunder, such application shall be deemed to reduce the Lease
Investment Balance under this Lease on a dollar-for-dollar basis.  Tenant shall
have no claims, rights or causes of action against Landlord arising from any
application of the Collateral to satisfy any obligation under the Lease.

     22.17 As-Is Lease. Landlord makes no representations or warranties
concerning the condition, suitability or any other matters relating to the
Premises, and Tenant hereby acknowledges that Tenant leases the Premises from
Landlord on an "as is" basis.

     22.18 Net Lease.  Except as otherwise provided in this Lease, Tenant agrees
that this Lease is an absolute net Lease, and the Base Rent called for hereunder
shall be paid as required net of all expenses associated with the Premises,
including without limitation, Real Estate Taxes and insurance premiums for the
insurance required to be carried hereunder, and all other reasonable and
customary costs and expenses incurred by Landlord in connection with the
Premises or this Lease, all of which shall be paid or reimbursed by Tenant
unless otherwise specifically provided herein.  Tenant agrees to reimburse
Landlord, within five (5) business days following receipt of any written demand
therefor, for all reasonable and customary fees (including fees to SBNYTC), late
charges, title endorsement, custodian fees related to the Collateral and other
costs and expenses charged to Landlord which accrue during any period unless
such expenses are capitalized and added to the Lease Investment Balance.

     22.19 Representations and Warranties.  Tenant and Landlord each hereby
represents and warrants to the other that: (i) such party is duly organized and
existing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is formed, and is
qualified to do business in the State of California; (ii) such party has the
full right and authority to enter into this


                                       170


<PAGE>

Lease, consummate the sale, transfers and assignments contemplated herein and
otherwise perform its obligations under this Lease; (iii) the person or persons
signatory to this Lease and any document executed pursuant hereto on behalf of
such party have full power and authority to bind such party; and (iv) the
execution and delivery of this Lease and the performance of such party's
obligations hereunder do not and shall not result in the violation of its
organizational documents or any material contract or agreement to which such
party may be a party.

     22.20 Financial Reporting.  Tenant shall provide to Landlord: (1) annually,
within one hundred (100) days after the end of each of Tenant's fiscal years
during the Term, an annual report on Form 10-K for such fiscal years as filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (2) quarterly, within sixty (60)
days after the end of each of Tenant's fiscal quarters during the Term,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission; (3) within thirty (30) days after filing with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, any other nonconfidential reports, final proxy statements
or registration statements on form S-3 or S-4 (after being declared effective)
filed during the Term with the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (4) an
officer's certificate stating that no Event of Default has occurred under the
Lease in the form attached as Exhibit F, with the delivery of the Form 10(k)
provided for in clause (1) above.

     22.21 Nondiscrimination.  Tenant herein covenants by and for itself, its
heirs, executors, administrators and assigns, and all persons claiming under or
through it, and this Lease is made and accepted upon and subject to the
following conditions:

     That there shall be no discrimination against or segregation of any person
or group of persons on account of race, color, creed, religion, sex, age,
handicap, marital status, ancestry or national origin in the leasing,
subleasing, transferring, use, occupancy, tenure or enjoyment of the premises
herein leased, nor shall Tenant itself, or any person claiming under or through
it, establish or permit any such practice or practices of discrimination or
segregation with reference to the selection, location, number, use or occupancy
of tenants, lessees, subtenants, sublessees or vendees in the premises herein
leased.

                                   ARTICLE 23
                                 INDEMNIFICATION

     23.1 Tax Indemnity.  Notwithstanding anything in Article 8 to the contrary,
Tenant shall protect and defend Landlord from and against all criminal
prosecution regarding and shall indemnify and hold Landlord harmless from and
against any and all loses, costs, liabilities or damages (including reasonable
attorneys' fees and disbursements and court costs) arising by reason of:

     (a) Any and all U.S. Federal, state or local income taxes imposed upon
Landlord in consequence of Landlord being treated as the owner or lessor of the
Premises (or any part thereof) for such tax purposes (provided that Landlord has
fully complied with its obligations under Section 22.2(b));


                                       171

<PAGE>

      (b) Any and all taxes imposed upon Tenant (except to the extent that such
taxes are imposed upon Tenant as a result of Landlord's failure to comply with
its obligations under this Lease);

     (c)  Any and all taxes required to be withheld from payments made by Tenant
to a third party not related to or affiliated with Landlord;

     (d)  Any and all Real Estate Taxes;

     (e)  Any and all taxes owed by Landlord as a result of payment made by
Tenant to Landlord pursuant to Tenant's indemnity obligations under this Section
23.1; and

     (f)  Any and all costs, liabilities or damages (including reasonable
attorneys' fees) incurred by Landlord in obtaining indemnification payments from
Tenant under the provisions of this Section 23. 1.

     Tenant's obligation to reimburse or indemnify Landlord for any taxes,
governmental fees, penalties, interest or other supplemental tax charges under
this Lease shall be reduced by the value of any related or offsetting tax
benefits derived or realized by Landlord.  Tenant's duty to indemnify Landlord
under this Section 23.1 shall apply only to taxes arising during the Term
(whether or not due and payable at the conclusion of the Term), but shall
otherwise survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

     23.2 Environmental Indemnity.  Tenant agrees to indemnify and hold Landlord
harmless from and against, and to reimburse Landlord with respect to, any and
all claims, demands, causes of action, losses, damages, liabilities, costs and
expenses (including attorneys' fees and court costs), fines and/or penalties of
any and every kind or character, known or unknown, fixed or contingent, asserted
or potentially asserted against or incurred by Landlord at any time and from
time to time by reason of, in connection with or arising out of (A) the failure
of Tenant to perform any obligation herein required to be performed by Tenant
regarding Applicable Environmental Laws, (B) any violation of any Applicable
Environmental Law by Tenant or with respect to the Premises or any disposal or
other release by Tenant or with respect to the Premises of any hazardous
substance, environmental contaminants or solid waste on or to the Premises,
whether or not resulting in a violation of any Applicable Environmental Law, (C)
any act, omission, event or circumstance by Tenant or with respect to the
Premises which constitutes or has constituted violation of any Applicable
Environmental Law with respect to the Premises, regardless of whether the act,
omission, event or circumstance constituted a violation of any Applicable
Environmental Law at the time of its existence or occurrence, and (D) any and
all claims or proceedings (whether brought by private party or governmental
agencies) for bodily injury, property damage, abatement or remediation,
environmental damage or impairment or any other injury or damage resulting from
or relating to any hazardous or toxic substance or contaminated material located
upon or migrating into, from or through the Premises or the Improvements
(whether or not the release of such materials was caused by Tenant, a subtenant,
a prior owner of the Premises


                                       172

<PAGE>

or any other Entity) which Landlord may incur.  Tenant's duty to indemnify
Landlord under this Section 23.2 shall survive the expiration or earlier
termination of the Lease with respect to events occurring during or prior to the
Term or after the Term while Landlord has record title to and Tenant is
occupying the Premises.

     23.3 Construction Indemnification.  Tenant will defend, protect, indemnify
and save harmless Landlord from and against all liabilities, obligations,
claims, damages, causes of action, costs and expenses, imposed upon or incurred
by Landlord by reason of the occurrence or existence of any of the following
during the Term, except to the extent caused by the willful misconduct, gross
negligence, or willful breach of contract of Landlord or its agents: (1) any
accident, injury to or death of persons or loss of or damage to property
occurring on or about the Premises or Improvements; (2) performance
of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in
respect of the Premises or the Improvements; (3) the negligence or willful
misconduct on the part of Tenant or any of its agents, invitees, employees or
contractors or any other persons entering onto the Premises or the Improvements
at the request, behest or with the permission of Tenant; (4) the use or
occupancy of the Improvements; (5) the use of the Land; or (6) any breach by the
"Owner" under the contracts entered into by Tenant as Landlord's agent pursuant
to the terms of the Construction Management Agreement if such breach is caused
by Tenant's actions or omissions or because of Tenant's failure to discharge its
duties under the Construction Management Agreement.  Tenant's duty to indemnify
Landlord under this Section 23.3 shall survive the expiration or earlier
termination of this Lease with respect to events occurring during the Term or
after the Term while Landlord has record title to and Tenant is occupying the
Premises.

     23.4 General Indemnity.  Tenant shall defend, indemnify, and hold Landlord
harmless from and against any and all losses, costs, expenses, liabilities,
claims, causes of action and damages of all kinds that may result to Landlord,
including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements incurred by Landlord,
arising because of any failure by Tenant to perform any of its obligations under
this Lease.  Tenant's duty to indemnify Landlord under this Lease shall survive
the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Lease as of
the day and year first above written.

                                     TENANT:


                                       173


<PAGE>

ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED,
a California Corporation

By
Name
Its

               LANDLORD:




                                       174


<PAGE>

SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND
FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation

By
Name
Its

By
Name
Its



                                       175


<PAGE>

                                    Exhibit A

                             DESCRIPTION OF THE LAND

                                [To be completed]





                                       176


<PAGE>


                                    Exhibit B

CLOSING COSTS AND FEES TO BE INCLUDED IN INITIAL ADVANCE

The following items shall be included in the definition of the Initial Advance
under Section 2.21 of the Lease:

1.  Arrangement fee (SBL&F)




                                       177


<PAGE>

$150,0002.Fees of Landels, Ripley & Diamond



                                       178


<PAGE>

$ 37,5003.Title Insurance premiums paid by Landlord
     at the closing of this transaction





                                       179


<PAGE>

$ 18,8104.Cushman & Wakefield (appraisal)




                                       180


<PAGE>

$ 9,5005.Fee of SBNYTC (set up fee)



                                       181


<PAGE>

$ 2,500





                                       182


<PAGE>

                                    Exhibit C

                            PERMITTED TITLE EXCEPTIONS

                                [To be attached]





                                       183


<PAGE>

                                    Exhibit D

                        RENT COMMENCEMENT DATE MEMORANDUM

     THIS RENT COMMENCEMENT DATE MEMORANDUM ("Memorandum") is entered into this
____ day of__________, 199_, by and between SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE,
INC., a Delaware corporation ("Landlord"), and ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, a
California corporation ("Tenant") concerning that certain Lease ("Lease")
between Landlord and Tenant dated _____________  _____, 1994.  Any capitalized
terms not defined in this Memorandum shall have their meaning as defined in the
Lease.

     1.    Pursuant to Section 6.2 of the Lease, Landlord and Tenant are
required to enter into this Memorandum within thirty (30) days after the Rent
Commencement Date for the Premises.

     2.    Landlord and Tenant agree the that Rent Commencement Date for the
Premises is ____________________, 199__.

     3.    The dollar value of the Guaranteed Residual Value (defined in Section
2.18 of the Lease) for the Premises is $_________________________.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Memorandum as of the
date and year first above written.

                                     TENANT:


                                       184

<PAGE>

ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED,
a California Corporation

By
Name
Its

                                    LANDLORD:



                                       185


<PAGE>

SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND
FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation

By
Name
Its

By
Name
Its



                                       186


<PAGE>

                                    Exhibit E

(MEMORANDUM OF SUBLEASE
OF THE LAND AND LEASE OF THE IMPROVEMENTS)

RECORDING REQUESTED BY, AND WHEN RECORDED, RETURN TO:

_____________________________

_____________________________

_____________________________
Attention: __________________________________, Esq.



MEMORANDUM OF SUBLEASE
OF THE LAND AND LEASE OF THE IMPROVEMENTS

     THIS MEMORANDUM OF SUBLEASE OF THE LAND AND LEASE OF
THE IMPROVEMENTS ("Memorandum of Lease") is executed as of October 12,1994, by
and between SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation
("Landlord"), and ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED, a California corporation
("Tenant").

                                    RECITALS

     WHEREAS, Landlord and Tenant have executed that certain lease ("Lease")
dated as of October 12, 1994, covering a leasehold interest in certain land
located on the real property located in the City of San Jose, Santa Clara
County, California as more particularly described in Schedule I attached hereto
and incorporated herein by this reference ("Land") and the Improvements which
may come to be located on said Land (the Land and Improvements are referred to
herein as the "Premises"); and

     WHEREAS, Landlord and Tenant desire to record notice of the Lease in the
real estate records of Santa Clara County, California:

     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, Landlord and Tenant
hereby declare as follows:

     1.    Demise. Landlord hereby leases the Premises to Tenant and Tenant
hereby leases the Premises from Landlord, subject to the terms, covenants and
conditions contained in the Lease.

     2.    Expiration Date.  The term of the Lease ("Term") shall commence with
respect to the Land on the date hereof and with respect to the Improvements as
provided for in the Lease, and shall expire on October 15, 2001, subject to
Tenant's right to extend the Term for one additional five (5) year period
pursuant to the terms of this Lease.

   3.  Option to Purchase.  Tenant has an option to purchase the Premises, as
more particularly described in the Lease, at any time during the Term
(including any



                                       187

<PAGE>

extension thereof).

     4.    Restrictions on Encumbrances.  Landlord is prohibited from recording
against the Premises liens (including, without limitation, deeds of trust),
encumbrances, and other matters that would constitute exceptions to title, and
from amending or modifying any of the foregoing that may exist now or during the
Term, as more particularly described in the Lease.

     5.    Restrictions on Transfers by Landlord.  Subject to certain
exceptions, Landlord may transfer its interest in the Premises to a third party
subject to the restrictions which are set forth with more particularity in the
Lease.

     6.    Counterparts. This Memorandum of Lease may be executed in any number
of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of
which together shall comprise but a single instrument.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Memorandum of
Lease as of the date and year first written above.

                                     TENANT:



                                       188


<PAGE>

ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED,
a California Corporation

By
Name
Its

                                    LANDLORD:



                                       189


<PAGE>

SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND
FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation

By
Name
Its

By
Name
Its


                                       190


<PAGE>

Schedule 1 to Exhibit E

[To be inserted]




                                       191



<PAGE>

                                    Exhibit F

                          FORM OF OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE


   The undersigned, __________________________________ of Adobe Systems
Incorporated, a California corporation hereby certifies that, as to the best of
his/her knowledge, as of the date hereof the lease dated____________  __, 1994
by and between Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc. as Landlord and Adobe
Systems Incorporated as Tenant is in full force and effect, and Tenant is not in
default thereunder.


Date:___________________________    ____________________________




                                       192


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 11
<TEXT>

<PAGE>



                                ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                        EXHIBIT 11

                         COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
                           (In thousands, except per share data)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


                                                                          Years Ended
                                            -----------------------------------------
                                            November 25    November 26    November 27
                                                   1994          1993            1992
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------

<S>                                         <C>             <C>            <C>
Net income                                  $     6,309     $   66,545     $   50,389
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------


Primary shares outstanding:
 Weighted average shares
   outstanding during the year                   59,756         58,141         59,190
 Common stock equivalent shares                   1,864          2,003          2,003
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------
                                                 61,620         60,144         61,193
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------

Fully diluted shares outstanding:
 Weighted average shares
   outstanding during the year                   59,756          58,141        59,190
 Common stock equivalent shares                   2,063           2,047         2,003
                                            -----------     -----------    ----------
                                                 61,819          60,188        61,193
                                            -----------     -----------    ----------
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------


Primary net income (loss) per common
 stock and common stock
 equivalent share                           $       .10     $     1.11       $   0.82
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------


Fully diluted net income (loss) per
 common stock and common
 stock equivalent share                     $       .10     $     1.11     $     0.82
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------
                                            -----------     ----------     ----------
</TABLE>






                                                  193



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                           EXHIBIT 21

                                 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiary Legal Name                    Jurisdiction of Incorporation
- - ---------------------------             ---------------------------------------
The Americas:
 Adobe Systems Incorporated              California
 Adobe Systems FSC, Inc.                 Territory of Guam
 Aldus Corporation                       Washington
 Image Club Graphics, Inc.               Canada
 LTC OEM Corporation                     California

 Aldus International, Inc.               Washington
 Aldus Trading, Ltd.                     Bermuda
 Compumation, Inc.                       Pennsylvania
 OCR Systems, Inc.                       Pennsylvania

Europe:
 Adobe Systems Europe Ltd.               United Kingdom
 Adobe Systems Direct Ltd.               United Kingdom
 Adobe Systems Holding BV                The Netherlands
 Adobe Systems Nordic AB                 Sweden
 Adobe Systems Benelux BV                The Netherlands
 Aldus Software GmbH                     Federal Republic of Germany
 Aldus Manutius Software AG              Switzerland
 Adobe Systems France SARL               France
 Adobe Systems Italia SRL                Italy
 Adobe Informatica                       Spain

 Adobe Systems SARL                      France
 Adobe Systems U.K., Ltd.                United Kingdom
 Adobe Systems GmbH                      Federal Republic of Germany
 Aldus Ireland                           Ireland
 Aldus Sverige AB                        Sweden
 Greenfield Investments, Ltd.            Ireland

Pacific Rim:
 Adobe Systems Company Ltd.              Japan
 Adobe Systems Japan                     California
 Adobe Australia Pty.                    Australia

All subsidiaries of the registrant are wholly owned and do business under their
legal names.

                                               194

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                          ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                  EXHIBIT 23

                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Adobe Systems Incorporated:

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
33-10753, No. 33-18986, No. 33-23171, No. 33-30976, No. 33-36501, No. 33-38387,
No. 33-48210, No. 33-63518, No. 33-78506, No. 33-83030, No. 33-83502,
No. 33-83504, No. 33-84396 and No. 33-86482) on FORM S-8 of Adobe Systems
Incorporated of our reports dated December 20, 1994, relating to the
consolidated balance sheets of Adobe Systems Incorporated and subsidiaries as
of November 25, 1994 and November 26, 1993, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended November 25, 1994, appearing on page 58 of this
FORM 10-K. As indicated in our report, we did not audit the consolidated
financial statements of Aldus Corporation and subsidiaries, a company acquired
by Adobe Systems Incorporated in a business combination accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests. Those statements were auditied by other auditors whose
report has been furnished to us, and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the
amounts included for Aldus Corporation, is based solely on the reports of the
other auditors.


                                       KPMG Peat Marwick LLP


San Jose, California
February 13, 1995

                                               195


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                           ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                  EXHIBIT 23.1

               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (No.
33-10753, No. 33-18986, No. 33-23171, No. 33-30976, No. 33-36501, No. 33-38387,
No. 33-48210, No. 33-63518, No. 33-78506, No. 33-83030, No. 33-83502, No. 33-
83504, No. 33-84396 and No. 33-86482) on FORM S-8 of Adobe Systems Incorporated
of our report dated January 28, 1994, relating to the consolidated balance sheet
of Aldus Corporation as of December 31, 1993 and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the two
years in the period ended December 31, 1993, appearing on page 95 of this FORM
10-K.


                                   Ernst & Young LLP



Seattle, Washington
February 13, 1995

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AT NOVEMBER 25, 1994 AND THE CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 25, 1994 AND IS QUALIFIED
IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<RESTATED>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          NOV-25-1994
<PERIOD-START>                             NOV-27-1993
<PERIOD-END>                               NOV-25-1994
<CASH>                                         190,091
<SECURITIES>                                   210,269
<RECEIVABLES>                                   99,838
<ALLOWANCES>                                     3,253
<INVENTORY>                                      9,619
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               532,363
<PP&E>                                         113,315
<DEPRECIATION>                                  74,211
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                 625,503
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          168,732
<BONDS>                                              0
<COMMON>                                       142,207
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                     314,564
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                   625,503
<SALES>                                        156,652
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                               597,772
<CGS>                                          111,810
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  111,810
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               453,459
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                 1,518
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                 39,997
<INCOME-TAX>                                    33,688
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              6,309
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     6,309
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     0.10
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.10
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</IMS-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
