-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 NUV7Y4TpY4i3I5a4Ifb5SELNgJY/ryatEXDVIDmTIvAo4OzpEdKVVaR0sQ9h8zBs
 SnZgPpk971Fjp81ciLlLdg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950134-96-000963.txt : 19960329
<SEC-HEADER>0000950134-96-000963.hdr.sgml : 19960329
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-96-000963
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19960128
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960328
SROS:			NASD

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			DELL COMPUTER CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000826083
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS [3571]
		IRS NUMBER:				742487834
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-17017
		FILM NUMBER:		96540390

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2214 W BRAKER LN
		STREET 2:		STED
		CITY:			AUSTIN
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78758
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5123384400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2112 KRAMER LN - BLDG 1
		CITY:			AUSTIN
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			78758
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K FISCAL YEAR END 01-28-96
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JANUARY 28, 1996
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-17017
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                           <C>
                   DELAWARE                                     74-2487834
       (State or other jurisdiction of                       (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)                     Identification No.)
</TABLE>
 
            2214 WEST BRAKER LANE, SUITE D, AUSTIN, TEXAS 78758-4053
   (Address, including Zip Code, of registrant's principal executive offices)
 
                                 (512) 338-4400
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                     Common Stock, par value $.01 per share
                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes /X/  No / /
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                                                           <C>
AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF COMMON STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES
  OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF MARCH 22, 1996....................................  $2,347,100,735
                                                                              --------------
NUMBER OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK OUTSTANDING AS OF MARCH 22, 1996...........      90,248,455
                                                                              --------------
</TABLE>
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     The information required by Part III of this Report is incorporated herein
by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy statement relating to the
annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1996, which definitive proxy
statement shall be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120
days after the end of the fiscal year to which this Report relates.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>   2
 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1 -- BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Dell Computer Corporation (the "Company") designs, develops, manufactures,
markets, services and supports a wide range of computer systems, including
desktops, notebooks and network servers, and also markets software, peripherals
and service and support programs. With revenue of approximately $5.3 billion for
fiscal 1996 (which ended on January 28, 1996), the Company is the world's
leading direct marketer of computer systems and one of the top seven computer
vendors in the world.
 
     The Company is a Delaware corporation that was incorporated in October
1987, succeeding to the business of a predecessor Texas corporation (also named
Dell Computer Corporation) that was originally incorporated in May 1984. Based
in Austin, Texas, the Company conducts operations worldwide through wholly owned
subsidiaries. See "Item 1 -- Business -- Geographic Areas of Operations" below.
Unless otherwise specified, references herein to the "Company" are references to
the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries. The Company operates in one
principal industry segment.
 
     The Company's common stock, par value $.01 per share (the "Common Stock"),
is listed on The Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "DELL." See "Item
5 -- Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
Matters -- Market Information" below.
 
BUSINESS STRATEGY
 
     The Company's business strategy is customer-focused and aims to deliver the
best customer experience through direct, comprehensive customer relationships,
cooperative research and development with technology partners, custom-built
computer systems and service and support programs tailored to customer needs.
The Company believes that this approach provides it with several competitive
advantages. The approach eliminates the need to support an extensive network of
wholesale and retail dealers, thereby avoiding typical dealer mark-ups, the
higher inventory costs associated with the wholesale/retail channel and the
competition for retail shelf space, while reducing the obsolescence risk
associated with products in a rapidly changing technological market. In
addition, direct customer contact allows the Company to maintain, monitor and
update a database of information about customers and their current and future
product and service needs, which can be used to shape future product offerings
and post-sale service and support programs.
 
     Comprehensive Customer Relationships. The Company seeks to develop and
utilize direct customer relationships to understand end-users' needs and to
deliver high quality computer products and services tailored to meet those
needs. With respect to major account customers, the relationship begins prior to
sale, when the Company works with the customer to plan a strategy to meet that
customer's current and future technology needs. The direct relationship
continues after the sale, as dedicated account teams consisting of sales,
customer service and technical personnel continue to support the customer's
technology objectives. The Company also establishes direct relationships with
small-to-medium business and individual customers, although some of those
relationships may not be as extensive as the relationships with major account
customers. All of these direct customer relationships provide the Company with a
flow of information about its customers' plans and requirements and enable it to
weigh their needs against emerging technologies.
 
     Cooperative Research and Development. The Company also attempts to develop
cooperative, meaningful relationships with the world's most advanced technology
companies. Working with these companies, the Company's engineers manage quality,
integrate technologies and design and manage system architecture. This
cooperative approach allows the Company to determine the best
<PAGE>   3
 
method and timing for delivering new technologies to the market. The Company's
goal is to deliver the right technology to its customers at the right time.
 
     Custom-Built Computers. The Company was founded on the principle that
delivering computers custom-built to specific customer orders is the best
business model for providing solutions that are truly relevant to end-user
needs. This build-to-order, flexible manufacturing process enables the Company
to achieve faster inventory turnover and reduced inventory levels and allows the
Company to rapidly incorporate new technologies and components into its product
offerings.
 
     Custom-Tailored Service and Support Programs. In the same way that the
Company's computer products are built-to-order, service and support programs are
designed to fit specific customer requirements. The Company offers a broad range
of service and support programs through its own technical personnel and its
direct management of specialized service suppliers. These services range from
telephone support to on-site customer-dedicated systems engineers.
 
     While the Company believes that its business strategy provides it with
competitive advantages, there are many factors that may affect the Company's
business and the success of its operations. These factors include general
economic and business conditions; the level of demand for computers; the level
and intensity of competition in the computer industry and the pricing pressures
that may result; the ability of the Company to timely and effectively manage
periodic product transitions and component availability; the ability of the
Company to develop new products based on new or evolving technology and the
market's acceptance of those products; the ability of the Company to manage its
inventory levels to minimize excess inventory, declining inventory values and
obsolescence; the product, customer and geographic sales mix of any particular
period; and the Company's ability to continue to improve its infrastructure
(including personnel and systems) to keep pace with the growth in its overall
business activities. For a discussion of these and other factors affecting the
Company's business and prospects, see "Item 1 -- Business -- Factors Affecting
the Company's Business and Prospects" below.
 
GEOGRAPHIC AREAS OF OPERATIONS
 
     The Company's products are currently sold in more than 130 countries
worldwide. During fiscal 1996, the Company continued the consolidation of its
worldwide operations into distinct geographic regions to support its customers
in each area through fully integrated, regional business units. Under the
regionalized structure, the Company's global business operations are divided
into four distinct geographic regions. The Americas region, which is based in
Austin, Texas, covers the United States, Canada and Latin America. The Europe
region, which is based in Bracknell, England, covers the European countries and
also some countries in the Middle East and Africa. The Asia Pacific region,
which is based in Hong Kong, covers the Far East (exclusive of Japan), Australia
and New Zealand. The Japan region covers only Japan and is based in Tokyo.
 
     The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Austin, Texas. The
Company's manufacturing facilities are located in Austin, Texas; Limerick,
Ireland; and Penang, Malaysia. Construction of the Malaysian facility, which
also houses the Asia Pacific Customer Center, was started and completed during
fiscal 1996. See "Item 2 -- Properties" below.
 
     For financial information about the results of the Company's operations by
geographic region for each of the last three fiscal years, see Note 13 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8 -- Financial Statements
and Supplementary Data."
 
     The Company intends to continue to expand its international activities by
increasing its market presence in existing markets through strengthening its
marketing and sales compensation programs, by improving its infrastructure, by
pursuing additional distribution opportunities and by entering new markets.
There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be successful in its
efforts to expand geographically. In addition, international activities are
subject to special risks. See "Item 1 -- Business -- Factors Affecting the
Company's Business and Prospects" below.
 
                                        2
<PAGE>   4
 
PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
 
     The Company offers a wide range of computer systems, including desktops,
notebooks and network servers, as well as software, peripherals and service and
support programs.
 
     Desktop Computer Systems. The OptiPlex(TM) line of desktop computer systems
is the Company's mainstream offering for corporate and other major account
customers who require advanced features, performance and networkability. The
OptiPlex DGX series is designed for advanced users; the OptiPlex GX series is
designed for mainstream business users; and the OptiPlex G and OptiPlex X series
are designed for value-oriented users. All of these systems utilize Pentium(R)
processors from Intel Corporation, with the OptiPlex DGX series offering single
or dual processor configurations. The Company also offers the OptiPlex 486/E
series, which is based on 486 processors.
 
     The Company has two lines of desktop computer systems that are designed
primarily for small-to-medium businesses and individual users. The Dell
Dimension(TM) XPS line is targeted at technologically sophisticated users and
includes systems based on Intel's Pentium Pro(R) processors and systems based on
Pentium processors. The Dell Dimension line is designed for the more value-
oriented user and is based on Pentium processors.
 
     Notebook Computers. The Company offers two lines of notebook or portable
computers. The systems within the Latitude(TM) X-Series line are high
performance systems optimized for corporate enterprise and network enterprise
connectivity. The systems within the Latitude L-Series line are performance
systems optimized for remote connectivity and highly mobile usage.
 
     Servers. The PowerEdge(R) line of network servers consists of systems that
can operate as file servers, database servers, applications servers and
communications/groupware servers in a networked computing environment. The
PowerEdge XL series is designed for large, complex network environments of 500
or more users and includes systems that may be configured with one, two or four
Pentium processors. The PowerEdge XE-2 and PowerEdge SP-2 series are designed
for mid-sized networks and include systems that may be configured with one or
two Pentium processors. The PowerEdge EL series is an entry-level design for
small workgroups and is based on the Pentium processor. The PowerEdge Web Server
is an Internet World Wide Web information server and consists of a PowerEdge EL
server with preinstalled network and communications software.
 
     Software and Peripheral Products. In addition to its own branded products,
the Company offers a broad range of software and peripheral products through its
DellWare(R) program. Through DellWare, the Company offers more than 7,000 of the
most popular software packages and hardware and communication peripherals. The
Company's ReadyWare(SM) program is a collection of more than 60 popular software
applications and interface cards that can be factory-installed on any computer
system the Company sells.
 
     Service and Support. The Company enhances its product offerings with a
number of specialized services, including custom hardware and software
integration and network installation and support. The Company offers
next-business-day delivery, as well as an extended training and support program
from Software Support, Inc., on more than 125 of its software offerings. For
additional discussion of the Company's service and support programs, see "Item
1 -- Business -- Service and Support" below.
 
MARKETING AND SALES
 
     The Company's customers range from major accounts, which include large
corporations, government agencies and medical and educational institutions, to
small businesses and individuals. The Company creates specialized marketing
approaches tailored to meet the needs of each type of customer. No single
customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's consolidated net sales
during any of the last three fiscal years.
 
                                        3
<PAGE>   5
 
     Major Accounts. The Company has a broad base of business among Fortune
500(R) companies and governmental, medical and educational institutions
worldwide. The Company holds a U.S. General Services Administration Schedule
contract, through which it sells to U.S. federal governmental agencies.
 
     The Company maintains a field sales force calling on major account
customers and prospects. The Company develops direct sales marketing programs
and services specifically geared to these major account customers. Account
management teams, consisting of sales, customer service and technical support
representatives, form long-term customer relationships to provide each major
account customer with a single source of assistance on issues ranging from order
placement to system configuration, connectivity and technology transitioning. To
support these teams, the Company has account executives in many major cities
around the world. For customers with in-house maintenance organizations, the
Company offers a variety of programs, including specialized computer training
programs, a repair parts assistance program and other customized programs to
provide access to the Company's technical support team. Customized product
delivery and service programs are available on a worldwide basis. See "Item
1 -- Business -- Service and Support" below.
 
     The Company supplements its direct marketing strategy by marketing through
value-added resellers ("VARs") that customize the Company's computer systems
with specific end-user applications through the addition of hardware, software
or services. Because VARs frequently package complete application-specific
solutions, they are able to benefit from the Company's custom manufacturing and
technical and marketing support programs. To provide VARs with added
flexibility, the Company offers several programs tailored directly to their
needs. For example, VARs can purchase complete systems from the Company and have
them shipped directly to the user's installation site, allowing VARs to reduce
inventory, handling and other related costs.
 
     Net sales from major account customers totaled $3.36 billion in fiscal
1996, $2.31 billion in fiscal 1995 and $1.84 billion in fiscal 1994,
representing a 45% increase from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 and a 26% increase
from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995. As a percentage of consolidated net sales,
sales to this customer group represented approximately 63% in fiscal 1996, 67%
in fiscal 1995 and 64% in fiscal 1994.
 
     Small-to-Medium Businesses and Individuals. The Company also has a
significant base of business among small-to-medium businesses and individuals.
Typically, these customers are knowledgeable computer users and are not
first-time buyers of computer systems. The Company maintains a sales force that
markets its products and services to these customers by advertising in trade and
general business publications and by mailing a broad range of direct marketing
publications, such as promotional pieces, catalogs and customer newsletters. The
Company believes these customers value its ability to provide reliable, custom
configured computer systems at competitive prices, knowledgeable sales
assistance, post-sale support and on-site service offerings.
 
     Net sales from small-to-medium business and individual customers totaled
$1.93 billion in fiscal 1996, $1.16 billion in fiscal 1995 and $1.03 billion in
fiscal 1994, representing a 67% increase from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 and a
12% increase from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995. As a percentage of consolidated
net sales, sales to this customer group represented approximately 37% in fiscal
1996, 33% in fiscal 1995 and 36% in fiscal 1994.
 
SERVICE AND SUPPORT
 
     The Company offers a variety of service and support programs in all of its
geographic markets. The following is a brief description of the service and
support programs offered exclusively or primarily to the Company's U.S.
customers. A full line of warranty, service and support options are available in
the Company's international markets, but these options can vary significantly
based on the local market and customer requirements.
 
                                        4
<PAGE>   6
 
     Standard Programs. Most of the Company's systems include a standard
one-year, next-business-day, on-site service contract. In addition, basic
warranty coverage includes a three-year limited warranty for OptiPlex desktop
systems, Latitude notebook systems and PowerEdge server systems and a one-year
limited warranty for Dell Dimension XPS and Dell Dimension desktop systems. The
three-year warranties include one year of parts and labor coverage and two
additional years of parts only coverage, while the one-year warranties include a
year of parts and labor coverage. The Company also provides a 30-day "Total
Satisfaction" money back guarantee for any U.S. end-user customer buying
directly from the Company.
 
     The Company's SelectCare(SM) service and support program comes standard 
with all desktop and notebook systems. This program includes a toll-free
hardware support line that is accessible 24 hours a day, 7 days a week for the
life of all of the Company's systems. The technical specialists staffing this
line maintain close contact with the Company's marketing, manufacturing and
product design groups and have on-line access to each customer's original
system configuration and service history. Customers purchasing notebook
computer systems are provided with access to a separate, dedicated toll-free
line staffed with mobile computing technicians 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
The Company's BusinessCare(SM) program comes standard with all PowerEdge server
systems. This program, which is designed for corporate users with servers on
local or wide area networks, includes one year of parts and labor on-site
service, two additional years of parts delivery service and five assistance
calls to the Company's network operating system support technicians.
 
     The Company offers alternative support avenues through the Internet and
many of the on-line subscription services such as CompuServe, America Online and
Prodigy. The Company also provides customers anytime access to the Company's
bulletin board for technical information that is menu-driven and fully
interactive, as well as access to its TechFax(SM) system (a fax-back service) 
and its AutoTech system (an interactive voice response unit).
 
     Many of the Company's systems include software that enables customers to
diagnose and communicate system problems. Several systems also include a
built-in diagnostics program that can provide on-line information about system
malfunctions.
 
     Additional Options. Recognizing that customer service and support
requirements vary, the Company offers customers the opportunity to customize
their SelectCare or BusinessCare program by selecting additional levels of
service and support to satisfy their individual needs. Customers may supplement
the standard one-year service contract with extended service contracts providing
up to five additional years of next-business-day, on-site service. BusinessCare
customers may upgrade to BusinessCare Plus, which provides three years of
four-hour on-site response, 24 hours a day.
 
     Through the DellPlus program, the Company offers specialized services
designed to satisfy customers' unique hardware and software integration
requirements. With this program, a customer's particular integration
requirements (whether hardware related, such as specialized network cards, video
and graphic boards, modems, tape drives or hard drives; or software related,
such as customer proprietary software applications or drivers) can be satisfied
at the time the customer's systems are manufactured. This is in addition to the
Company's ReadyWare program, which is a collection of more than 60 popular
software applications and interface cards that can be factory-installed.
 
     The Company offers around-the-clock software support on more than 125 of
the most popular software applications. Single users may subscribe to this
support on a 90-day or one-year basis, while multi-user groups can arrange for
hourly blocks of access.
 
     The Company also offers a variety of on-site installation services that can
be customized to meet the needs of each specific customer. These services
include basic installation and orientation, system connectivity and functional
testing, external peripheral installation, internal device installation and file
server and advanced system installation.
 
                                        5
<PAGE>   7
 
     Many of the Company's service and support programs, particularly the
software support and on-site service programs, are provided through independent
third-party contractors. In the United States, such contractors include Software
Support, Inc., BancTec Service Corp. and Digital Equipment Corporation.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     The Company operates manufacturing facilities in Austin, Texas; Limerick,
Ireland; and Penang, Malaysia. Construction of the Malaysian facility, which
also houses the Company's Asia Pacific Customer Center, began in March 1995 and
was completed in October 1995; this facility began production in November 1995.
 
     The Company's manufacturing process consists of assembly, functional
testing and quality control of the Company's computer systems. Testing and
quality control processes are also applied to components, parts and
subassemblies obtained from suppliers. The Company's build-to-order
manufacturing process is designed to allow the Company to quickly produce
customized computer systems and to achieve rapid inventory turnover and reduced
inventory levels, which lessens the Company's exposure to the risk of declining
inventory values. This flexible manufacturing process also allows the Company to
incorporate new technologies or components into its product offerings quickly.
The build-to-order manufacturing process makes it more difficult, however, for
the Company to achieve the same manufacturing efficiencies as computer
manufacturers that sell standardized products in high volume.
 
     The Company contracts with Sony Corporation and Quanta Computer, Inc. to
manufacture unconfigured base notebook computers. The Company then custom
configures these systems for shipment to customers.
 
     Quality control is maintained through the testing of components, parts and
subassemblies at various stages in the manufacturing process. Quality control
also includes a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, on-going
production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of
production and component problems and information from the Company's customers
obtained through its direct relationships and service and support programs. The
Company conducts a voluntary vendor certification program, under which qualified
vendors commit to meet defined quality specifications. Both the U.S. and Ireland
manufacturing facilities have been certified as meeting ISO 9002 quality
standards; the Malaysian facility, having only been in production since November
1995, is not yet eligible for this certification.
 
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's product development efforts are focused on designing and
developing reasonably priced computer systems that adhere to industry standards
and incorporate the technologies and features that the Company believes are the
most desired by its customers. To accomplish this objective, the Company must
evaluate, obtain and incorporate new hardware, software, communications and
peripherals technologies that are primarily developed by others. The Company's
product development team includes programmers, technical project managers and
engineers experienced in system architecture, logic board and chip design,
sub-system development, mechanical engineering, manufacturing processing and
operating systems design. This cross-functional approach to product design has
enabled the Company to develop systems with improved functionality,
manufacturability, reliability, serviceability and performance, while keeping
costs competitive. The Company takes steps to ensure that new products are
compatible with industry standards and that they meet cost objectives based on
competitive pricing targets.
 
     The Company bases its product development efforts on cooperative,
meaningful relationships with the world's most advanced technology companies.
These working relationships allow the Company to use its direct marketing model
and build-to-order manufacturing process to deliver, on
 
                                        6
<PAGE>   8
 
a timely and cost-effective basis, those emerging technologies that are most
important to its customers.
 
     The Company spent $95 million in fiscal 1996 on research, development and
engineering activities, compared with $65 million in fiscal 1995 and $49 million
in fiscal 1994. The amount the Company spends on research, development and
engineering activities is determined as part of the annual budget process and is
based on cost-benefit analyses and revenue forecasts. The Company prioritizes
activities to focus on projects that it believes will have the greatest market
acceptance and achieve the highest return on the Company's investment.
 
PATENTS, TRADEMARKS AND LICENSES
 
     The Company holds 127 U.S. patents and eight foreign patents. At January
28, 1996, the Company had 334 U.S. patent applications pending and 30 foreign
applications pending in several European and Asian countries. The Company's
United States patents expire in years 2005 through 2013. The inventions claimed
in those patents and patent applications cover aspects of the Company's current
and possible future computer system products and related technologies. The
Company is developing a portfolio of patents that it anticipates will be of
value in negotiating intellectual property rights with others in the industry.
 
     The Company has obtained U.S. federal trademark registration for its DELL
word mark and its Dell logo mark. The Company owns registrations for 19 of its
other marks in the United States. As of January 28, 1996, the Company had
pending applications for registration of 12 other trademarks. The DELL word
mark, Dell logo and other trademark and service mark registrations in the United
States may be renewed as long as the marks continue to be used in interstate
commerce. The Company believes that establishment of the DELL mark and logo in
the United States is material to the Company's operations. The Company has also
applied for or obtained registration of the DELL mark and several other marks in
approximately 91 other countries or jurisdictions where the Company conducts or
anticipates expanding its international business. The Company has also taken
steps to reserve corporate names and to form non-operating subsidiaries in
certain foreign countries where the Company anticipates expanding its
international business. The Company is precluded from obtaining a registration
for trademarks consisting of or incorporating the term "Dell" in certain foreign
countries, although the Company does not believe that its inability to register
"Dell" as a trademark in such countries will have a material adverse effect on
its business.
 
     On March 5, 1993, the Company and Texas Instruments, Inc. ("TI") entered
into an agreement to cross-license their respective patent portfolios. Under the
terms of the agreement, the Company makes annual royalty payments to TI. The
agreement expires on January 31, 1998.
 
     In August 1993, the Company and International Business Machines Corporation
("IBM") entered into a patent license agreement, under which the parties
licensed to each other, within prescribed fields of use, all current patents and
all patents entitled to an effective application filing date prior to February
1, 1999 that are owned by either of the parties or any of their subsidiaries.
The Company makes annual royalty payments to IBM under the agreement. The
agreement terminates on the latest expiration date of the patents licensed
thereunder.
 
     The Company has entered into non-exclusive licensing agreements with
Microsoft Corporation giving the Company the right to distribute various
software packages and the MS-DOS, Windows and Windows 95 operating system
software. The Company has also entered into various other software licensing
agreements with other companies.
 
     From time to time, other companies and individuals assert exclusive patent,
copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights to technologies or
marks that are important to the computer industry or the Company's business. The
Company evaluates each claim relating to its
 
                                        7
<PAGE>   9
 
products and, if appropriate, seeks a license to use the protected technology.
The licensing agreements generally do not require the counterparty to assist the
Company in duplicating its patented technology nor do these agreements protect
the Company from trade secret, copyright or other violations by the Company or
its suppliers in developing or selling these products.
 
INFRASTRUCTURE
 
     Management Information Systems. The Company's management information
systems enable the Company to track each unit sold from the initial sales
contacts, through the manufacturing process to post-sale service and support.
The system assists the Company in tracking key information about many of its
customers. The Company is able to target marketing activities specifically to
particular types of customers using its database to assess purchasing trends,
advertising effectiveness and customer and product groupings. This database,
unique to the Company's direct model, allows the Company to gauge customer
satisfaction issues and also provides the opportunity to test new propositions
in the marketplace prior to product or service introductions.
 
     The Company is in the process of transitioning its management information
systems to more fully integrate them on an enterprise-wide basis, to reduce
redundancy and to incorporate enhanced functionality. The Company currently
expects this transition, which involves both hardware and software enhancements,
to continue at least through fiscal 1999. See "Item 1 -- Business -- Factors
Affecting the Company's Business and Prospects -- Strength of Infrastructure"
below.
 
     Employees. At January 28, 1996, the Company had approximately 8,400
full-time employees. Approximately 5,600 of those employees were located in the
United States, and approximately 2,800 were located in other countries. The
Company has never experienced a work stoppage due to labor difficulties and
believes that its employee relations are good.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
     In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (the "FCC")
regulates the radio frequency emissions of computing equipment. The FCC has
established two standards for computer products, Class A and Class B. Only Class
B products may be sold for use in a residential environment. Both Class A and
Class B products may be sold for use in a commercial environment. All of the
Company's current desktop, notebook and network server systems are sold under
the more restrictive Class B certification. The Company periodically tests its
products to ensure that the products satisfy applicable FCC regulations.
 
     The Company's business is also subject to regulation by various other
federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the anti-trust
regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and Department of
Justice, the import/export regulatory activities of the U.S. Department of
Commerce and the product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer
Products Safety Commission.
 
     The Company is also required to obtain regulatory approvals in other
countries prior to the sale or shipment of products. In certain jurisdictions,
such requirements are more stringent than in the United States. Many developing
nations are just beginning to establish safety, environmental and other
regulatory requirements, which may vary greatly from U.S. requirements.
 
BACKLOG
 
     At the end of fiscal 1996, backlog was $102 million, compared with backlog
of $95 million at the end of fiscal 1995. The Company does not believe that
backlog is a meaningful indicator of sales that can be expected for any period,
and there can be no assurance that the backlog at any point in time will
translate into sales in any subsequent period, particularly in light of the
Company's policy of
 
                                        8
<PAGE>   10
 
allowing customers to cancel or reschedule orders without penalty prior to
commencement of manufacturing.
 
FACTORS AFFECTING THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS
 
     Statements in this Report that relate to future results or events are based
on the Company's current expectations. There are many factors that affect the
Company's business and the results of its operations. The following is a
description of some of the important factors that may cause the actual results
of the Company's operations in future periods to differ materially from those
currently expected or desired.
 
     General Economic Conditions. The Company's business partly depends on
general economic and business conditions. Most of the Company's sales are to
major corporate, government, education and medical customers and small-to-medium
businesses. General economic conditions that cause such customers to reduce or
delay their investments in computer systems could have a negative effect on the
Company's strength and profitability.
 
     Industry Growth and Demand. The strength and profitability of the Company's
business also depends on the overall strength of demand for computers and growth
in the computer industry. A softening of demand may result in decreased revenues
(or at least declining revenue growth rates) for computer manufacturers in
general and the Company in particular. Furthermore, weakening demand may result
in pricing pressures for products that the Company sells, which could have a
negative effect on the Company's revenues and profitability.
 
     Growth of the Direct Channel. The Company's future success party depends on
the continued growth of direct channels for the distribution of computer systems
and related products. While the Company's direct marketing approach has gained
acceptance among a large number of customers who are comfortable purchasing
directly from the manufacturer, the approach may not appeal to buyers who desire
physical access to products prior to purchase. The Company believes that these
buyers consist primarily of certain small-to-medium businesses and individuals,
particularly those making their first computer purchase. The Company has no
current plans or intention to market its products through traditional indirect
distribution channels, and there can be no assurance that it would be able to
establish a significant presence in those channels if it became necessary or
desirable in the future. There can be no assurance that worldwide direct
marketing channels will grow or that the Company's distribution strategy will
continue to be successful.
 
     Competition. The computer industry is highly competitive and may become
more so as the result of, among other things, the introduction of new
competitors (including large multi-national, diversified companies) and possibly
weakening demand. Principle competitive factors include product performance,
quality and reliability, customer service and support, marketing and
distribution capabilities and price. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to maintain or improve its current competitive position with
respect to any of these or other competitive factors. Some of the Company's
competitors have stronger brand-recognition, greater financial, marketing,
manufacturing and technological resources, broader product lines and larger
installed customer bases than does the Company. This intense competition could
result in loss of customers or pricing pressures, which would negatively affect
the Company's results of operations.
 
     The Company and other computer manufacturers generally have access to, and
make use of, many of the same components, often from the same group of
suppliers. The general industry practice has been to reduce the prices of
computer systems as component prices decline. The Company may take other pricing
actions as it attempts to maintain a competitive mix of price, performance and
customer support services while managing its liquidity, profitability and
growth. Although the Company attempts to mitigate the effects of price
reductions by improving product mix, further reducing component costs and
lowering operating costs, there can be no assurance that pricing actions will
enhance or improve the Company's competitive position or that cost-reduction
efforts will offset the effects of reduced prices on profitability.
 
                                        9
<PAGE>   11
 
     International Activities. The Company's international operations have
provided a significant part of the Company's growth during recent fiscal years.
The success and profitability of international operations are subject to
numerous risks and uncertainties, such as economic and labor conditions,
political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries)
and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which
products are sold. Changes in exchange rates may adversely affect the Company's
consolidated net sales (as expressed in U.S. dollars) and gross margins from
international operations. The Company attempts to mitigate this exposure through
hedging transactions. See "Item 7 -- Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Hedging Activities" and Note 4
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8 -- Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data."
 
     Fluctuations in Operating Results. The Company's operating results may
fluctuate from period to period and will depend on numerous factors, including
customer demand and market acceptance of the Company's products, new product
introductions, product obsolescence, component price fluctuations, varying
product mix, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency and interest rate
hedging and other factors. The Company's business is sensitive to the spending
patterns of its customers, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic
conditions and other factors beyond the Company's control.
 
     The Company's net sales in a given quarter are largely dependent on
customer orders received in that quarter, and operating expenditures are
primarily based on forecasts of customer demand. If demand does not meet the
Company's expectations in any given period, the sales shortfall may result in an
increased effect on operating results if the Company is unable to adjust
operating expenditures quickly enough to compensate for such shortfall.
 
     Product, Customer and Geographic Mix. The profitability of the Company's
operations for any given period is partially dependent on the mix of products
that the Company sells during that period and the strength of demand for the
Company's products among various types of customers and in various geographic
regions. Many of the factors that affect product, customer and geographic mix
are beyond the Company's control.
 
     In the United States, the Company has experienced increased sales to the
government sector in the third fiscal quarter, which the Company believes
reflects the budgetary spending practices of the U.S. federal government. In
addition, in its third fiscal quarter, the Company has experienced decreased
sales in Europe, which the Company believes is the result of the holiday
schedule in European countries in the late summer months. These seasonal trends
have not been material relative to the Company's level of consolidated net sales
and have partially offset one another. There can be no assurance that the
Company will not experience material seasonal trends in the future.
 
     Technological Changes and Product Transitions. The computer industry is
characterized by continuing improvements in technology, which results in the
frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles and continual
improvement in product price/performance characteristics. Computer
manufacturers, including the Company, must incorporate these new technologies
into their products in order to remain competitive. Although the Company's
direct marketing model and build-to-order manufacturing process have allowed it
to participate in these technology transitions earlier than some of its
competitors, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue
to effectively manage technology transitions or that there will be technology
improvements in the computer business sufficient to allow the Company to take
advantage of its direct model and build-to-order manufacturing process. A
failure on the part of the Company to effectively manage the periodic transition
of its product lines to new technologies on a timely basis will directly affect
the demand for the Company's products and the profitability of the Company's
operations.
 
     The Company believes that its success is largely dependent upon continued
growth of its notebook product line, its ability to expand its presence in the
network server market and its ability to continue to efficiently manage the
transition to Pentium and Pentium Pro processor-based
 
                                       10
<PAGE>   12
 
computers and other technological advancements as they become commercially
available. There can be no assurance that product technologies will be available
to the Company, that the Company will be able to deliver commercial quantities
of computer products in a timely manner or that such products will achieve
market acceptance.
 
     Inventory Levels. Although the Company's build-to-order strategy gives it
the ability to operate with reduced levels of component and finished goods
inventories, shifts in technology and market demand may nevertheless result in
excess inventory, declining inventory values or even obsolescence. Maintaining a
low inventory level is dependent upon the Company's ability to achieve targeted
revenue and product mix, to further minimize complexities in its product line
and to maximize commonality of parts. There can be no assurance that the Company
will be able to maintain low inventory levels in future periods.
 
     Supply Sources. The Company's manufacturing process requires a high volume
of quality components that are procured from third party suppliers. Reliance on
suppliers, as well as industry supply conditions, generally involves several
risks, including the possibility of defective parts, a shortage of components,
increases in component costs and reduced control over delivery schedules, any or
all of which could adversely affect the Company's financial results.
 
     The Company has several single supplier relationships, and the lack of
availability of timely and reliable supply of components from these sources
could adversely affect the Company's business. In some cases, alternative
sources of supply are not available for some of the Company's single-sourced
components. In other cases, the Company may establish a working relationship
with a single source, even when multiple suppliers are available, if the Company
believes it is advantageous to do so due to performance, quality, support,
delivery, capacity or price considerations. Where alternative sources are
available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of
reliable supplies could result in delays, which could adversely affect the
Company's manufacturing processes and results of operations.
 
     The Company occasionally experiences delays in receiving certain
components, which can cause delays in the shipment of some products to
customers. Also, the Company has occasionally received defective components,
which can affect the reliability and reputation of its products. There can be no
assurance that the Company will be able to continue to obtain additional
supplies of reliable components in a timely or cost-effective manner. See
"Certain Concentrations" in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in "Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data."
 
     Product Development Activities. The strength of the Company's overall
business is partially dependent on the Company's ability to develop products
based on new or evolving technology and the market's acceptance of those
products. There can be no assurance that the Company's product development
activities will be successful, that new technologies will be available to the
Company, that the Company will be able to deliver commercial quantities of new
products in a timely manner, that those products will adhere to generally
accepted industry standards or that the products will achieve market acceptance.
The Company believes that it is necessary for its products to adhere to
generally accepted industry standards, which are subject to change in ways that
are beyond the control of the Company.
 
     Strength of Infrastructure. The Company has grown, and continues to grow,
at a rapid pace. This growth has required the Company to enhance and expand its
management team, information systems, manufacturing operations and other aspects
of its infrastructure. The Company's success and profitability partly depends on
its ability to continue to improve its infrastructure to keep pace with the
growth in its overall business activities. There can be no assurance that the
Company will be able to effectively manage the expansion of its infrastructure
to support future growth; that needed enhancements to the Company's management
information systems will be completed before the growth of the Company's
business outstrips the abilities of the current systems; or that
 
                                       11
<PAGE>   13
 
the Company's results of operations will not be adversely affected by any such
growth, expansion or enhancement.
 
     Government Regulation. Any delays or failures in obtaining necessary
approvals from U.S. federal governmental agencies or from foreign jurisdictions
may adversely affect the Company's ability to successfully market and sell its
products and may impede or preclude the Company's efforts to penetrate new
markets. There can be no assurance that such failures or delays will not occur
in the future.
 
     Patent Rights. As new products are introduced, the Company's continued
business success may be largely dependent on its ability to obtain licenses to
intellectual property developed by others. There can be no assurance that the
Company will be able to obtain those licenses on commercially reasonable terms.
In addition, the Company could be at a disadvantage if its competitors obtain
licenses for protected technologies with more favorable terms than does the
Company. If the Company or its suppliers are unable to license protected
technology used in the Company's products, the Company could be prohibited from
marketing those products or may have to market products without desirable
features. The Company could also incur substantial costs to redesign its
products or to defend any legal action taken against the Company. If the
Company's products should be found to infringe protected technology, the Company
could be enjoined from further infringement and required to pay damages to the
infringed party. Any of these could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business.
 
TRADEMARKS AND SERVICEMARKS
 
     Several United States trademarks appear in this Report. Dell, DellWare and
PowerEdge are registered trademarks of the Company. OptiPlex, Dell Dimension and
Latitude are trademarks of the Company. BusinessCare, ReadyWare, SelectCare and
TechFax are service marks of the Company. This Report also contains other
trademarks and tradenames of other entities; the Company disclaims proprietary
interest in the marks and names of others.
 
ITEM 2 -- PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's principal offices and U.S. manufacturing and warehousing
facilities are located in the Austin, Texas area. At January 28, 1996, the
Company had a total of approximately 1.6 million square feet of office,
manufacturing and warehouse space under lease in several buildings in Austin,
Texas. The expiration dates of such leases range from June 1997 to April 2003.
The Company owns 360 acres of land in Round Rock, Texas (just north of Austin),
on which is located a 224,000-square-foot office building completed in August
1994 and a 228,000-square-foot office building completed in October 1995. The
Company is in the process of constructing a third building (to contain 387,000
square feet of office space) on its Round Rock acreage and expects to occupy
that building in August 1996. The buildings on the Round Rock acreage house the
Company's Austin-based sales, marketing and support staff. The Company also
leases a total of approximately 108,000 square feet of office and warehouse
space in Canada and Mexico.
 
     As of January 28, 1996, the Company's other international facilities
consisted of (a) approximately 290,000 square feet of leased office space in 17
countries (with lease expiration dates ranging from 1996 to 2010), (b) a Company
owned 300,000-square-foot manufacturing and warehousing facility in Limerick,
Ireland and (c) a Company owned 238,000-square-foot combination office and
manufacturing facility in Penang, Malaysia. The land on which the Malaysian
facility is located has been leased for a term of 60 years (commencing November
1993) from the State Authority of Penang.
 
     The Company is evaluating other opportunities to expand facilities in
anticipation of increasing needs. The Company believes that it can readily
obtain appropriate additional space as may be required at competitive rates.
 
                                       12
<PAGE>   14
 
ITEM 3 -- LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     Set forth below is a discussion of certain legal proceedings involving the
Company, some of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company if
resolved in a manner unfavorable to the Company. The Company is also party to
other legal proceedings incidental to its business, none of which the Company
believes to be material.
 
     The Company has been named as a defendant in approximately 30 repetitive
stress injury lawsuits, most of which are in New York state courts or United
States District Courts for the New York City area. Several are in state courts
in New Jersey. One is in the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and one is in Federal District Court in Kansas. Two cases have
been dismissed; the remainder are at various stages of the process leading to
trial. The allegations in all of these lawsuits are similar. Each plaintiff
alleges that he or she suffers from symptoms generally known as "repetitive
stress injury," which allegedly were caused by the design or manufacture of the
keyboard supplied with the computer the plaintiff used. The Company has denied
or is in the process of denying the claims and intends to vigorously defend the
suits. The suits naming the Company are just a few of many lawsuits of this type
that have been filed, often naming Apple, Atex, Compaq, IBM, Keytronic and other
major suppliers of keyboard products. The Company currently is not able to
predict the outcome of these suits. It is possible that the Company may be named
in additional suits. Ultimate resolution of the litigation against the Company
may depend on progress in resolving this type of litigation overall. However,
the Company does not believe that the outcome of these matters will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.
 
     On August 11, 1993, the Company received a subpoena from the United States
Department of Commerce, Office of Export Enforcement of the Bureau of Export
Administration, requiring the Company to provide all documents relative to any
and all exports of 486/66 computers or related components to Russia, Ireland,
Iran or Iraq during the period from January 1992 through August 1993 in
connection with an investigation to enforce regulations under the Export
Administration Act of 1979, as amended. The investigation has been closed, with
no findings of wrongdoing by the Company, with respect to the Company's
shipments to Russia, Ireland and Iraq. The Company is awaiting a response from
the Department of Commerce regarding its voluntary self disclosure of certain
shipments to Iran in June 1992. If the Office of Export Enforcement's
investigators determine that the Company has violated applicable regulations,
the government could potentially file civil or criminal charges. The Company has
fully responded to the subpoena and, in accordance with its policy to comply
fully with export laws and regulations, intends to cooperate with the Office of
Export Enforcement. The Company does not believe that this investigation or its
outcome will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition
or results of operations.
 
     In May 1995, the Company was named, along with two other computer
manufacturers and one computer monitor vendor, in a class action complaint filed
in the California Superior Court for Marin County. Subsequently, several other
similar actions were filed in California Superior Courts for other counties,
naming a total of 48 defendants, including the Company. The complaints in all of
these cases allege that each of the defendants has engaged in false or
misleading advertising with regard to the size of computer monitor screens. The
plaintiffs seek restitution in the form of refunds or product exchange, damages,
punitive damages and attorneys' fees. The California Judicial Council, in
December 1995, ordered all of these similar cases consolidated for proceedings
up to and including trial and, in January 1996, appointed a single trial judge
for the consolidated proceeding. The judge has ordered all proceedings stayed
until March 29, 1996, when a status conference is scheduled. The Company plans
to vigorously contest the allegations of the complaints. This litigation is
currently at a preliminary stage and no discovery has occurred. Thus, it is too
early for the Company to adequately evaluate the likelihood of the plaintiffs'
prevailing on their claims. There can be no assurance that an adverse
determination in this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
                                       13
<PAGE>   15
 
     In June 1995, the Company was served with a class action complaint filed in
State District Court in Travis County, Texas. The complaint alleges that the
Company has included "used parts" in its "new" computer systems and has failed
to adequately inform its customers and prospective customers of that practice.
According to the complaint, these facts constitute fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, breach of contract and breach of warranty. The plaintiffs
seek refund of the purchase price for computer systems purchased from the
Company, damages in an unspecified amount, injunctive relief, interest and
attorneys' fees. The Company plans to vigorously contest the allegations of the
complaint. This litigation is currently at a preliminary stage, and no discovery
has occurred. Thus, it is too early for the Company to adequately evaluate the
likelihood of the plaintiffs' prevailing on their claims. There can be no
assurance that an adverse determination in this litigation would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.
 
ITEM 4 -- SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders, through
the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the fourth quarter of fiscal
1996.
 
                                       14
<PAGE>   16
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5 -- MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
MARKET INFORMATION
 
     The Common Stock is traded on The Nasdaq National Market under the symbol
"DELL." The following table sets forth, for the fiscal quarters indicated, the
high and low sales price for the Common Stock as reported in the consolidated
transaction reporting system. Such prices have been restated, where appropriate,
to reflect the two-for-one stock split discussed in "Item 5 -- Market for
Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters -- Dividends" below.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        HIGH           LOW
                                                                        -----         -----
<S>                                                                     <C>           <C>
FISCAL YEAR 1996
  Fourth Quarter
     (October 30, 1995, through January 28, 1996).....................  $49 3/8       $23
  Third Quarter
     (July 31,1995, through October 29, 1995).........................  $47 13/16     $31
  Second Quarter
     (May 1, 1995, through July 30, 1995).............................  $35 1/16      $24 1/4
  First Quarter
     (January 30, 1995, through April 30, 1995).......................  $27 7/16      $19 3/4
FISCAL YEAR 1995
  Fourth Quarter
     (October 31, 1994, through January 29, 1995).....................  $23 7/8       $18 3/8
  Third Quarter
     (August 1, 1994, through October 30, 1994).......................  $22           $13 3/4
  Second Quarter
     (May 2, 1994, through July 31, 1994).............................  $15 3/8       $10 3/4
  First Quarter
     (January 31, 1994, through May 1, 1994)..........................  $15 1/16      $9 9/16
</TABLE>
 
HOLDERS
 
     As of March 22, 1996, there were 3,526 holders of record of the Common
Stock.
 
DIVIDENDS
 
     The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common Stock. The Company
intends to retain earnings for use in its business and, therefore, does not
anticipate paying any cash dividends on Common Stock for at least the next
twelve months. In addition, the terms of the Indenture governing the Company's
11% Senior Notes Due August 15, 2000 limit "restricted payments" by the Company,
which include cash dividends.
 
     On October 9, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one
split of the Company's Common Stock in the form of a 100% stock dividend to
stockholders of record as of October 20, 1995. The distribution of such dividend
occurred on October 27, 1995.
 
     On November 30, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors, in connection with
the adoption and implementation of a stockholders' rights plan, declared a
dividend of one Preferred Share Purchase Right for each outstanding share of
Common Stock. The distribution of the dividend was made on December 13, 1995 to
the stockholders of record on that date. For further discussion of the terms of
the Preferred Share Purchase Rights, see "Item 7 -- Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and
Capital Resources" below and
 
                                       15
<PAGE>   17
 
Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item
8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" below.
 
STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
 
     On February 22, 1996, the Company announced a stock repurchase program
under which the Company may purchase up to 12 million shares of Common Stock in
open market or private transactions. The repurchase program is intended to
provide shares for issuance to employees under the Company's stock-based
employee benefit plans. The total number of shares to be purchased will be based
on several factors, including the level of stock issuances pursuant to employee
awards, the price of the Common Stock and other general market conditions.
Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions
from time to time at management's discretion. The Company may also utilize
equity options as part of the repurchase program. For information regarding the
status of the program to date, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements included in "Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"
below.
 
ITEM 6 -- SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements, including the related notes, and the
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations." The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of
the results of future operations.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    JANUARY 28,    JANUARY 29,    JANUARY 30,    JANUARY 31,    FEBRUARY 2,
                                       1996           1995          1994(A)         1993           1992
                                    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------    -----------
                                                     (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                 <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
Statement of Operations Data:
  Net sales.........................   $ 5,296       $ 3,475        $ 2,873        $ 2,014        $   890
  Gross margin......................   $ 1,067       $   738        $   433        $   449        $   282
  Operating income (loss)...........   $   377       $   249        $   (39)       $   139        $    67
  Net income (loss).................   $   272       $   149        $   (36)       $   102        $    51
  Earnings (loss) per common share
     (b):
       Primary......................   $  2.67       $  1.69        $  (.53)       $  1.30        $  0.70
       Fully diluted................   $  2.65       $  1.58        $    --        $    --        $    --
  Weighted average shares used to
     compute earnings (loss) per
     common share (b):
       Primary......................      97.1          83.1           74.7           78.5           72.5
       Fully diluted................      98.7          94.6             --             --             --
Statement of Financial Position Data:
  Working capital...................   $ 1,018       $   718        $   510        $   359        $   283
  Total assets......................   $ 2,148       $ 1,594        $ 1,140        $   927        $   560
  Long-term debt....................   $   113       $   113        $   100        $    48        $    41
  Total stockholders' equity........   $   973       $   652        $   471        $   369        $   274
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 
(a)  See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion
     of certain charges recorded in fiscal 1994 that contributed to the net
     loss.
 
(b)  All share and per share information has been retroactively restated to
     reflect the two-for-one split of the Common Stock in October 1995. See Note
     8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
                                       16
<PAGE>   18
 
ITEM 7 -- MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
     The following table sets forth for the fiscal years indicated the
percentage of consolidated net sales represented by certain items in the
Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations. All percentage amounts and
ratios were calculated using the underlying data in thousands.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            PERCENTAGE OF CONSOLIDATED NET SALES
                                                         -------------------------------------------
                                                                      FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                         -------------------------------------------
                                                         JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                            1996            1995            1994
                                                         -----------     -----------     -----------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
Net sales:
  Americas.............................................      65.6%           69.1%           70.9%
  Europe...............................................      27.9            27.4            27.2
  Asia Pacific and Japan...............................       6.5             3.5             1.9
                                                            -----           -----           -----
          Consolidated net sales.......................     100.0           100.0           100.0
Cost of sales..........................................      79.8            78.8            84.9
                                                            -----           -----           -----
          Gross margin.................................      20.2            21.2            15.1
Operating expenses:
  Selling, general and administrative..................      11.3            12.2            14.7
  Research, development and engineering................       1.8             1.9             1.7
                                                            -----           -----           -----
          Total operating expenses.....................      13.1            14.1            16.4
                                                            -----           -----           -----
          Operating income (loss)......................       7.1             7.1            (1.3)
Financing and other income (expense), net..............       0.1            (1.0)             --
                                                            -----           -----           -----
          Income (loss) before income taxes............       7.2             6.1            (1.3)
Provision for income taxes (benefit)...................       2.1             1.8            (0.1)
                                                            -----           -----           -----
          Net income (loss)............................       5.1             4.3            (1.2)
Preferred stock dividends..............................      (0.2)           (0.3)           (0.1)
                                                            -----           -----           -----
Net income (loss) available to common stockholders.....       4.9%            4.0%           (1.3)%
                                                            =====           =====           =====
</TABLE>
 
     Net Sales. Consolidated net sales includes sales of computer systems
(including hardware, certain software and accessories); computer peripherals;
other hardware, software and accessories sold separately from computer systems;
and extended service contracts. Sales of computer systems ("system revenue")
amounted to 89%, 88% and 87% of consolidated net sales for fiscal 1996, 1995 and
1994, respectively. Consolidated net sales for fiscal 1996 increased 52% over
fiscal 1995, compared with an increase of 21% in fiscal 1995 from fiscal 1994.
The increase in sales in fiscal 1996 was due primarily to a 48% increase in
units sold over the prior year, reflecting increased demand for the Company's
desktop product offerings and its Latitude family of notebook computers. During
fiscal 1996, sales of notebook computers represented 16% of system revenue, up
from 8% of system revenue in fiscal 1995 and 3% of system revenue in fiscal
1994. The mix of system revenue generated by sales of Pentium-processor based
products increased substantially in fiscal 1996, to 75% of system revenue,
compared with 29% and 1% in fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994, respectively. The
increase in the mix of system revenue from Pentium-processor based products and
from notebook computers (whether 486-based or Pentium-based) resulted in a 3%
increase in average total revenue per unit in fiscal 1996 over the prior year.
Average total revenue per unit increased 12% and unit volumes increased 8% for
fiscal 1995 over fiscal 1994, primarily because of strong demand for the
Company's Pentium processor-based products and notebook computers (all such
notebook computers were 486-based in fiscal 1995).
 
     The Company experienced growth in consolidated net sales in all geographic
regions in both fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995, with net sales from Asia Pacific
and Japan continuing to increase as a
 
                                       17
<PAGE>   19
 
percentage of consolidated net sales. Consolidated net sales (expressed in
United States dollars) were not significantly affected during any of the last
three fiscal years as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
rates from the comparable periods of the prior year. The Company believes that a
significant opportunity exists for continued growth in international operations.
In November 1995, the Company began production in a 238,000-square-foot
combination office and manufacturing facility on a nine-acre site in Penang,
Malaysia, to meet the needs of its expanding Asia Pacific business. The land on
which the Malaysian facility is located has been leased for a 60-year term,
beginning November 1993, from the State Authority of Penang. The Company intends
to continue to expand its international activities by increasing its market
presence in existing markets, improving its infrastructure, pursuing additional
distribution opportunities and entering new markets.
 
     The mix of the Company's business between sales to major accounts
(consisting of sales to major corporate, government, medical and education
accounts and value-added resellers) and sales to small-to-medium businesses and
individuals shifted in fiscal 1996, with sales to small-to-medium businesses and
individuals comprising 37% of consolidated net sales in fiscal 1996 compared
with 33% in the prior year. In fiscal 1994, sales to small-to-medium businesses
and individuals represented 36% of consolidated net sales.
 
     Gross Margin. Gross margin increased $329 million in fiscal 1996 over
fiscal 1995 and increased $305 million in fiscal 1995 over the prior year. The
Company's gross margin as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased to
20.2% in fiscal 1996 from 21.2% in the prior year, mainly due to the shift in
the sales mix from major accounts to small-to-medium businesses and individuals,
which generally carry lower margins, and to the Company's more aggressive
pricing strategy in comparison to the prior year. Additionally, in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1996, a problematic product transition involving certain of
the Company's OptiPlex desktop products had an adverse effect on gross margin.
These negative effects on gross margin were partially offset by lower warranty
and inventory obsolescence costs as a percentage of consolidated net sales and
certain economies of scale. The Company's gross margin percentage increased to
21.2% in fiscal 1995 from 15.1% in fiscal 1994. The gross margin percentage for
fiscal 1994 was adversely affected by $70 million of inventory write-downs and
related costs incurred during the first half of fiscal 1994 and, excluding these
charges, would have been 17.5%. The increase in gross margin percentage to 21.2%
in fiscal 1995 from 17.5% (as adjusted) in fiscal 1994 was due to improvements
in manufacturing logistics and efficiencies, reductions in component costs and
improvements in quality due to the Company's vendor certification and vendor
consolidation programs, and lower charges for inventory obsolescence
attributable to improved inventory management. Gross margins in fiscal 1995
compared with fiscal 1994 also benefited from higher average revenue per unit
resulting from a more moderate pricing environment in the last half of fiscal
1995, a higher margin sales mix driven by notebook computers and Pentium
processor-based systems, and changes in the Company's sales incentive programs.
 
     Operating Expenses. The Company's goal is to manage operating expenses,
over time, in relation to gross margin. During fiscal 1996, the Company
strengthened its management team and increased staffing worldwide to meet the
demands of its growth and to expand its international presence, resulting in
increased compensation-related expenses. The Company also expended resources on
its key global information systems project, which it began in late fiscal 1995
and expects to complete in fiscal 1999, and on improving current information
systems until the multi-year project is completed. These infrastructure
expenditures, plus increased spending for advertising and promotion, resulted in
an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses of 41% in fiscal
1996 over the prior year. However, selling, general and administrative expenses
as a percentage of consolidated net sales decreased to 11.3% in fiscal 1996 from
12.2% in fiscal 1995. Selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal
1994 included $21 million of charges for consolidating operations, write-offs of
certain assets and employee severance payments. The actions were taken to reduce
costs and included the closing of a subsidiary in Europe and consolidation of
its former operations into another central European location. European service
and
 
                                       18
<PAGE>   20
 
support operations were combined to reduce redundant costs. Additionally,
certain headcount reductions were made due to the efficiencies created from the
consolidations. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of
consolidated net sales in fiscal 1994 were 14.7% but, excluding the $21 million
of charges, would have been 14.0%. As a result of the cost reduction actions
taken in fiscal 1994, selling, general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of consolidated net sales decreased from 14.0% (as adjusted) in
fiscal 1994 to 12.2% in fiscal 1995, further aided by reduced advertising and
promotion expenses partially offset by increased compensation expense as the
Company began to strengthen its management team.
 
     To support increased product development activities and improved quality
and time-to-market of its products, the Company increased headcount during
fiscal 1996, resulting in increased compensation-related expenses. Furthermore,
the Company incurred additional development costs in conjunction with the
development of new notebook computer products. These activities resulted in an
increase in research, development and engineering expenses of 45% in fiscal 1996
over the prior year. Research, development and engineering expenses as a
percentage of consolidated net sales, however, decreased slightly in fiscal
1996. Research, development and engineering expenses increased 34% in absolute
dollar terms (and increased as a percentage of consolidated net sales) when
comparing fiscal years 1995 and 1994 primarily due to higher compensation
expense in fiscal 1995 relating to an increase in headcount and higher
development costs related to notebook computers and other product development
efforts.
 
     The Company believes that its ability to manage operating costs is an
important factor in its ability to remain price competitive. However, the
Company will continue to invest in information systems and infrastructure to
manage and support its growth. As previously discussed, the Company is currently
investing in a key global information systems project, which it expects to
complete in fiscal 1999.
 
     Financing and Other Income (Expense), Net. The table below sets forth, for
each of the past three fiscal years, the components of financing and other
income (expense), net:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                     -------------------------------------------
                                                     JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                        1996            1995            1994
                                                     -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                    (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                              <C>             <C>             <C>
    Financing and other income (expense), net:
      Investment income (loss), net:
         Marketable securities.....................     $  25           $  (7)          $   9
         Investment derivatives....................        --             (24)              5
      Interest expense.............................       (15)            (12)             (9)
      Foreign currency transactions................        (1)              3               1
      International year-end transition............        --               6              --
      Other........................................        (3)             (2)             (6)
                                                         ----            ----             ---
                                                        $   6           $ (36)          $  --
                                                         ====            ====             ===
</TABLE>
 
     Investment income (loss) on marketable securities increased to $25 million
in fiscal 1996 from ($7) million in fiscal 1995. The $7 million investment loss
in fiscal 1995 was due to realized losses of $24 million on certain of the
Company's marketable securities, partially offset by investment income of
approximately $17 million. The investment losses were primarily a result of
interest rate increases in the United States, Canadian, Japanese and European
interest rate markets. Excluding the impact of the realized losses in fiscal
1995, the increases in investment income from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 and
from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1995 were primarily due to higher average investment
balances and higher effective yields. The Company accounts for highly liquid
investments with maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition as
marketable securities and reflects the related cash
 
                                       19
<PAGE>   21
 
flows as investing cash flows. As a result, a significant portion of its gross
marketable securities purchases and maturities disclosed as investing cash flows
is related to highly liquid investments.
 
     The Company has historically employed a variety of interest rate derivative
instruments to manage its principal, market and credit risks and to enhance its
investment yield. Derivative instruments utilized include interest rate swaps,
written and purchased interest rate options and swaptions (options to enter into
interest rate swaps). Prior to June 1994, the Company structured derivative
instruments in interest rate markets where it had foreign operations. Interest
rate derivatives generally involve exchanges of interest payments based upon
fixed and floating interest rates without exchanges of underlying notional
amounts. For the first and second quarters of fiscal 1995, the average fair
value of these investment derivative financial instruments totaled ($12) million
and ($8) million, respectively. The Company closed all remaining investment
derivatives during the second quarter of fiscal 1995, and at the end of fiscal
1995 and throughout fiscal 1996, the Company had no investment derivatives
outstanding. Realized and unrealized net gains (losses) on investment
derivatives recognized in income for fiscal 1995 were ($24) million compared
with $5 million for fiscal 1994.
 
     All of the Company's foreign exchange and interest rate derivative
instruments involve elements of market and credit risk in excess of the amounts
recognized in the financial statements. The counterparties to financial
instruments consist of a number of major financial institutions. In addition to
limiting the amount of agreements and contracts it enters into with any one
party, the Company regularly monitors the credit quality of its counterparties.
The Company does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties.
 
     The increase in interest expense in fiscal years 1996 and 1995 was
primarily due to higher average debt balances outstanding and higher net
interest costs associated with the Company's 11% Senior Notes due August 15,
2000 (the "Senior Notes") issued in the third quarter of fiscal 1994.
Concurrently with the issuance of the Senior Notes, the Company entered into
interest rate swap agreements to reduce its related interest costs and, in the
third quarter of fiscal 1995, entered into offsetting swap agreements to change
its interest rate exposure. For further discussion of the interest rate swaps,
see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted average
interest rate, adjusted by the swaps, was 13.8%, 12.1% and 9.5% for fiscal years
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. At January 28, 1996, the Company was paying a
net interest cost of 13.8% on the Senior Notes.
 
     Prior to fiscal 1995, the Company consolidated its international operating
results on a one-month delay to facilitate consolidated financial reporting. In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995, the Company eliminated this one-month delay
and, consequently, included one additional month of international operations in
its income before income taxes for fiscal 1995. Net earnings before taxes of $6
million for this additional month were included in financing and other income
(expense), net, resulting in an additional $4 million of net income or $0.05 of
primary earnings per common share.
 
     The reduction in other expense in fiscal 1995 was primarily due to higher
financing-related expenses incurred in fiscal 1994 in connection with the
refinancing of debt and credit facilities.
 
     Income Tax. The Company's effective tax rate was 29.0% for fiscal 1996,
compared with 30.0% and 7.6% for fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994, respectively. The
changes in the effective tax rate resulted from changes in the geographical
distribution of income and losses and from significant second quarter fiscal
1994 losses.
 
HEDGING ACTIVITIES
 
     The results of the Company's international operations are affected by
changes in exchange rates between certain foreign currencies and the United
States dollar. Beginning in fiscal 1996, the majority of the Company's
international sales are made by international subsidiaries which have the U.S.
dollar as their functional currency. Principal international subsidiaries which
have the U.S. dollar
 
                                       20
<PAGE>   22
 
as the functional currency are the Company's Irish subsidiaries, including the
European manufacturing facility, and its Malaysian manufacturing, sales and
support subsidiary. As the value of the U.S. dollar strengthens against other
currencies, sales made in those currencies translate into lower sales in U.S.
dollars; as the value of the U.S. dollar weakens against other currencies, sales
made in those currencies translate into higher sales in U.S. dollars. The
financial statements for the Company's other international subsidiaries are
generally measured using the local currency as the functional currency. For many
of these international subsidiaries, an increase in the value of the U.S. dollar
increases costs incurred because many of the component purchases are denominated
in the U.S. dollar. Therefore, changes in exchange rates may negatively affect
the Company's consolidated net sales (as expressed in United States dollars) and
gross margins from international operations.
 
     The Company conducts a foreign currency hedging program to reduce its
exposure to the risk that the dollar-value equivalent of anticipated cash flows
will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The
Company uses foreign currency purchased option contracts and forward contracts
in an effort to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations involving
anticipated, but not firmly committed, transactions and transactions with firm
foreign currency commitments. For further information regarding hedging
activities and their effect on the Company's financial statements, see Note 1
and Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     The Company's cash flows from operating activities were $175 million in
fiscal 1996 and represented the Company's primary source of cash. At January 28,
1996, and January 29, 1995, the Company's working capital totaled $1,018 million
and $718 million, respectively. Days in accounts receivable at the end of fiscal
1996 decreased to 42 days from 47 days at the end of fiscal 1995. Days in
accounts payable decreased to 33 days at the end of fiscal 1996 from 44 days at
the end of fiscal 1995. Inventory levels decreased slightly to 31 days of supply
at the end of fiscal 1996 from 32 days of supply at the end of fiscal 1995.
 
     The Company utilized $101 million in cash during fiscal 1996 primarily to
construct facilities and to acquire information systems (principally hardware
and third-party software licenses) and personal computer office equipment.
Capital expenditures for fiscal 1997 are expected to be approximately $100
million, primarily related to the construction of facilities, the acquisition of
information systems and the acquisition of computer equipment for internal use.
The Company believes that its cash and marketable securities and cash flows from
operating activities will be adequate to fund its planned fiscal 1997 capital
expenditures.
 
     During fiscal 1996, the Company entered into a series of line of credit
facilities, each of which bears interest at a defined Base Rate or Eurocurrency
Rate and has a covenant based on quarterly maintenance of net worth. Maximum
aggregate amounts available under these credit facilities are limited to $200
million less the aggregate of outstanding letters of credit under these
facilities. During the commitment period, the Company is obligated to pay a fee
on the unused portion of the credit facilities. No borrowings or letters of
credit were outstanding under these credit facilities as of January 28, 1996,
and the maximum available totaled $200 million.
 
     In November 1995, several of the Company's subsidiaries entered into a
transaction pursuant to which Dell Receivables L.P. ("Dell Receivables"), a
newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, purchases certain accounts
receivable and related assets from other Company subsidiaries and in turn
transfers such accounts receivable and related assets to the Dell Trade
Receivable Master Trust (the "Master Trust"). The Master Trust will issue
certificates evidencing fractional undivided interests therein, which
certificates may be sold to investors. This arrangement gives Dell Receivables
the ability to raise up to $150 million through the sale of certificates of
interest in the Master Trust and replaced the Company's receivables
securitization arrangement that was scheduled to expire in June 1996. Dell
Receivables is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the unused
 
                                       21
<PAGE>   23
 
portion of the facility. At January 28, 1996, this facility was unused. During
fiscal 1994, the Company sold $85 million of receivables pursuant to the terms
of its previous receivables securitization arrangement. The discount on sale of
receivables was included in financing and other income (expense), net. All such
receivables sold were collected during fiscal 1994. The previous facility was
unused in fiscal 1995 and 1996.
 
     In August 1993, the Company issued $100 million of 11% Senior Notes Due
August 15, 2000. Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semiannually, on
February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Senior Notes are redeemable, in
whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time on or after August
15, 1998, at redemption prices decreasing from 103.50% to 101.75% of principal,
depending upon the redemption date, plus accrued interest to the date of
redemption.
 
     In December 1994, the Company obtained a $14 million loan secured by a
224,000-square-foot office building in Round Rock, Texas (with a net book value
of $23 million at January 28, 1996). The loan is for 15 years at an interest
rate of 10.28%; monthly payments of principal and interest, payable in arrears,
began in February 1995. The long-term portion of the loan was $13 million at
January 28, 1996.
 
     In August 1993, the Company sold 1,250,000 shares of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock (the "Convertible Preferred Stock"), generating net proceeds of
$120 million after deducting related issuance costs. In February 1995, the
Company offered to pay a cash premium of $8.25 for each outstanding share of
Convertible Preferred Stock that was converted to Common Stock. For a discussion
of the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock and the terms of the conversion
offer, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Holders of
1,190,000 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock elected to convert and, as a
result, received an aggregate of approximately 10 million shares of Common Stock
and $10 million in cash during the first quarter of fiscal 1996. The $10 million
conversion premium and $1 million of expenses of the conversion offer were
treated as an additional dividend on the Convertible Preferred Stock for
financial reporting purposes. In addition, the weighted average shares
outstanding used to compute primary earnings per common share for fiscal 1996
includes the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion from the closing of
the conversion period until the end of fiscal 1996.
 
     In July 1995, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the
Company's Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of
Common Stock that the Company is authorized to issue from 100 million to 300
million. On October 9, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a
two-for-one Common Stock split, payable in the form of a 100% stock dividend to
stockholders of record as of October 20, 1995. The distribution of such dividend
occurred on October 27, 1995. All share and per share information has been
retroactively restated in the Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect the
stock split.
 
     In November 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend of
one Preferred Share Purchase Right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of
Common Stock. The distribution of the Rights was made on December 13, 1995, to
the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles the holder to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of a new series of preferred stock, the
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, at an exercise price of $225. For
a discussion of the terms of such preferred stock, see Note 7 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements. The Rights will be exercisable only if a
person or group acquires 15% or more of the Common Stock or announces a tender
offer, the consummation of which would result in such person or group owning 15%
or more of the Common Stock. For further discussion of the terms of the Rights,
see Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     On February 22, 1996, the Company announced a stock repurchase program
under which the Company may purchase up to 12 million shares of Common Stock in
open market or private transactions. The repurchase program is intended to
provide shares for issuance to employees under the Company's stock-based
employee benefit plans. The total number of shares to be purchased will be based
on several factors, including the level of stock issuances pursuant to
 
                                       22
<PAGE>   24
 
employee awards, the price of the Common Stock and other general market
conditions. Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions from time to time at management's discretion. The Company may also
utilize equity options as part of the repurchase program. For information
regarding the status of the program to date, see Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.
 
     The Company's long-term commitments to use cash consist of the repayment of
the $100 million in Senior Notes, the repayment of the outstanding balance of
the $14 million secured loan and the payment of operating lease commitments.
 
     Management believes that sufficient resources will be available to meet the
Company's cash requirements through at least the next twelve months. Cash
requirements for periods beyond the next twelve months depend on the Company's
profitability, its ability to manage working capital requirements and its rate
of growth.
 
FACTORS AFFECTING THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS
 
     Numerous factors may affect the Company's business and the success of its
operations. These factors include general economic and business conditions; the
level of demand for personal computers; the level and intensity of competition
in the personal computer industry and the pricing pressures that may result; the
ability of the Company to timely and effectively manage periodic product
transitions and component availability; the ability of the Company to develop
new products based on new or evolving technology and the market's acceptance of
those products; the ability of the Company to manage its inventory levels to
minimize excess inventory, declining inventory values and obsolescence; the
product, customer and geographic sales mix of any particular period; and the
Company's ability to continue to improve its infrastructure (including personnel
and systems) to keep pace with the growth in its overall business activities.
For a discussion of these and other factors affecting the Company's business and
prospects, see "Item 1 -- Business -- Factors Affecting the Company's Business
and Prospects" above.
 
                                       23
<PAGE>   25
 
ITEM 8 -- FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        PAGE
                                                                                        ----
<S>                                                                                     <C>
Financial Statements:
  Report of Independent Accountants...................................................   25
  Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at January 28, 1996 and
     January 29, 1995.................................................................   26
  Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three fiscal years ended
     January 28, 1996.................................................................   27
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended
     January 28, 1996.................................................................   28
  Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the three fiscal years ended
     January 28, 1996.................................................................   29
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..........................................   30
Financial Statement Schedule:
  For the three fiscal years ended January 28, 1996
     Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.................................   56
</TABLE>
 
     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.
 
                                       24
<PAGE>   26
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Dell Computer Corporation
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of Dell Computer Corporation and its subsidiaries at January 28, 1996
and January 29, 1995, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended January 28, 1996, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.
 
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
 
Austin, Texas
February 19, 1996
 
                                       25
<PAGE>   27
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
 
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     ASSETS
                                                                      JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,
                                                                         1996            1995
                                                                      -----------     -----------
<S>                                                                   <C>             <C>
Current assets:
  Cash..............................................................     $   55          $   43
  Marketable securities.............................................        591             484
  Accounts receivable, net..........................................        726             538
  Inventories.......................................................        429             293
  Other current assets..............................................        156             112
                                                                         ------          ------
          Total current assets......................................      1,957           1,470
Property, plant and equipment, net..................................        179             117
Other assets........................................................         12               7
                                                                         ------          ------
                                                                         $2,148          $1,594
                                                                         ======          ======
                              LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Accounts payable..................................................     $  466          $  403
  Accrued and other liabilities.....................................        473             349
                                                                         ------          ------
          Total current liabilities.................................        939             752
                                                                         ------          ------
Long-term debt......................................................        113             113
                                                                         ------          ------
Deferred profit on warranty contracts...............................        116              68
                                                                         ------          ------
Other liabilities...................................................          7               9
                                                                         ------          ------
Commitments and contingencies.......................................         --              --
Stockholders' equity:
  Preferred stock and capital in excess of $.01 par value; shares
     authorized: 5,000,000; shares issued and outstanding: 60,000
     and 1,250,000, respectively....................................          6             120
  Common Stock and capital in excess of $.01 par value; shares
     authorized: 300,000,000 and 100,000,000, respectively; shares
     issued and outstanding: 93,446,607 and 79,359,276,
     respectively...................................................        430             242
  Retained earnings.................................................        570             311
  Other.............................................................        (33)            (21)
                                                                         ------          ------
          Total stockholders' equity................................        973             652
                                                                         ------          ------
                                                                         $2,148          $1,594
                                                                         ======          ======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       26
<PAGE>   28
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                         -------------------------------------------
                                                         JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                            1996            1995            1994
                                                         -----------     -----------     -----------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
Net sales..............................................     $5,296          $3,475          $2,873
Cost of sales..........................................      4,229           2,737           2,440
                                                            ------          ------          ------
          Gross margin.................................      1,067             738             433
Operating expenses:
  Selling, general and administrative..................        595             424             423
  Research, development and engineering................         95              65              49
                                                            ------          ------          ------
          Total operating expenses.....................        690             489             472
                                                            ------          ------          ------
          Operating income (loss)......................        377             249             (39)
Financing and other income (expense), net..............          6             (36)             --
                                                            ------          ------          ------
          Income (loss) before income taxes............        383             213             (39)
Provision for income taxes (benefit)...................        111              64              (3)
                                                            ------          ------          ------
          Net income (loss)............................        272             149             (36)
Preferred stock dividends..............................        (12)             (9)             (4)
                                                            ------          ------          ------
Net income (loss) available to common stockholders.....     $  260          $  140          $  (40)
                                                            ======          ======          ======
Earnings (loss) per common share:
  Primary..............................................     $ 2.67          $ 1.69          $ (.53)
                                                            ======          ======          ======
  Fully diluted........................................     $ 2.65          $ 1.58          $   --
                                                            ======          ======          ======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       27
<PAGE>   29
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                         -------------------------------------------
                                                         JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                            1996            1995            1994
                                                         -----------     -----------     -----------
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income (loss)....................................     $   272         $   149         $   (36)
  Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net
     cash provided by operating activities:
       Depreciation and amortization...................          38              33              31
       Net loss on marketable securities...............          --              21              --
       Compensation expense recognized under employee
          stock plans..................................          10               4               3
       Other...........................................          --              --               1
  Changes in:
     Operating working capital.........................        (183)             (3)             97
     Non-current assets and liabilities................          38              39              17
                                                            -------         -------         -------
          Net cash provided by operating activities....         175             243             113
                                                            -------         -------         -------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Marketable securities:
     Purchases.........................................      (4,545)         (4,644)         (2,588)
     Maturities and other redemptions..................       4,386           4,340           2,288
     Sales.............................................          56             124              47
  Capital expenditures.................................        (101)            (64)            (48)
                                                            -------         -------         -------
          Net cash used in investing activities........        (204)           (244)           (301)
                                                            -------         -------         -------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Net payments for short-term borrowings...............          --              --              (9)
  Proceeds from long-term debt.........................          --              14              97
  Repayments of borrowings.............................          (1)             (1)            (50)
  Net proceeds from issuance of preferred stock........          --              --             120
  Preferred stock dividends paid.......................         (13)             (9)             (2)
  Issuance of Common Stock under employee plans........          48              35              22
                                                            -------         -------         -------
          Net cash provided by financing activities....          34              39             178
                                                            -------         -------         -------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash................           7               2              (2)
                                                            -------         -------         -------
Net increase (decrease) in cash........................          12              40             (12)
Cash at beginning of period............................          43               3              15
                                                            -------         -------         -------
Cash at end of period..................................     $    55         $    43         $     3
                                                            =======         =======         =======
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       28
<PAGE>   30
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                        -------------------------------------------------------------
                                         PREFERRED STOCK    COMMON STOCK
                                           AND CAPITAL      AND CAPITAL
                                            IN EXCESS        IN EXCESS      RETAINED
                                          OF PAR VALUE      OF PAR VALUE    EARNINGS    OTHER    TOTAL
                                         ---------------    ------------    --------    -----    -----
<S>                                      <C>                 <C>             <C>         <C>      <C>
Balances at January 31, 1993............     $  --             $178          $209      $(18)    $369
  Net loss..............................        --               --           (36)       --      (36)
  Issuance of 1,250,000 shares of
     preferred stock....................       120               --            --        --      120
  Issuance of 2,142,166 shares of Common
     Stock under employee plans,
     including tax benefits.............        --               22            --        --       22
  Preferred stock dividends paid........        --               --            (2)       --       (2)
  Unrealized gain on marketable
     securities.........................        --               --            --         3        3
  Foreign currency translation
     adjustment.........................        --               --            --        (5)      (5)
                                             -----             ----          ----      ----     ----
Balances at January 30, 1994............       120              200           171       (20)     471
  Net income............................        --               --           149        --      149
  Issuance of 3,501,214 shares of Common
     Stock under employee plans,
     including tax benefits.............        --               42            --        (4)      38
  Preferred stock dividends paid........        --               --            (9)       --       (9)
  Unrealized loss on marketable
     securities.........................        --               --            --        (6)      (6)
  Foreign currency translation
     adjustment.........................        --               --            --         9        9
                                             -----             ----          ----      ----     ----
Balances at January 29, 1995............       120              242           311       (21)     652
  Net income............................        --               --           272        --      272
  Issuance of 4,066,363 shares of Common
     Stock under employee plans,
     including tax benefits.............        --               74            --       (17)      57
  Issuance of 10,020,968 shares of
     Common Stock due to preferred stock
     conversion.........................      (114)             114            --        --       --
  Amortization of unearned
     compensation.......................        --               --            --         2        2
  Preferred stock dividends paid........        --               --           (13)       --      (13)
  Unrealized gain on marketable
     securities.........................        --               --            --         3        3
                                             -----             ----          ----      ----     ----
Balances at January 28, 1996............     $   6             $430          $570      $(33)    $973
                                             =====             ====          ====      ====     ====
</TABLE>
 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       29
<PAGE>   31
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1 -- DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Description of Business -- The Company designs, develops, manufactures,
markets, services and supports a wide range of computer systems, including
desktops, notebooks and network servers, and also markets software, peripherals
and service and support programs. The Company markets its computer products and
services under the Dell(R) brand name directly to its customers. These customers
include major corporate, government, medical and education accounts, as well as
small-to-medium businesses and individuals. The Company supplements its direct
marketing strategy by marketing through value-added resellers. Based in Austin,
Texas, the Company conducts operations worldwide through wholly owned
subsidiaries; such operations are primarily concentrated in the United States
and Europe.
 
     Fiscal Year -- The fiscal year of the Company ends on the Sunday nearest
January 31.
 
     Principles of Consolidation -- The consolidated financial statements have
been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
include the accounts of Dell Computer Corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been
eliminated. Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with
the current year presentation.
 
     Prior to fiscal 1995, the Company consolidated its international operating
results on a one-month delay to facilitate consolidated financial reporting. In
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1995, the Company eliminated this one-month delay
and, consequently, included one additional month of international operations in
its income before income taxes for fiscal 1995. Net earnings before taxes of $6
million for this additional month were included in financing and other income
(expense), net and the related cash flows were included in cash flows from
operating activities.
 
     Use of Estimates -- The preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at fiscal year
end and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the fiscal year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management believes that the
estimates are reasonable.
 
     Marketable Securities -- The Company's marketable securities are classified
as available-for-sale and, accordingly, are reported at fair value. Fair values
are based on quoted broker prices or dealer quotes. Unrealized gains and losses
are reported, net of taxes, as a component of stockholders' equity. Unrealized
losses are charged against income when a decline in fair value is determined to
be other than temporary. The specific identification method is used to determine
the cost of securities sold. The Company accounts for highly liquid investments
with maturities of three months or less at date of acquisition as marketable
securities and reflects the related cash flows as investing cash flows. As a
result, a significant portion of its gross marketable securities purchases and
maturities disclosed as investing cash flows is related to highly liquid
investments.
 
     Inventories -- Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with
cost being determined on a first-in, first-out basis. On a quarterly basis, the
Company compares the amount of the inventory on hand and under commitment on a
part-by-part basis with its latest forecasted requirements to determine whether
write-downs for excess or obsolete inventory are required.
 
     Property, Plant and Equipment -- Property, plant and equipment is carried
at cost. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the
economic lives of the assets, which range from seven to 30 years for buildings
and two to five years for all other assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized
over the shorter of five years or the lease term.
 
                                       30
<PAGE>   32
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Foreign Currency Translation -- The majority of the Company's international
sales are made by international subsidiaries which have the U.S. dollar as their
functional currency. Principal international subsidiaries which have the U.S.
dollar as the functional currency are the Company's Irish subsidiaries,
including the European manufacturing facility, and its Malaysian manufacturing,
sales and support subsidiary. Financial statements for international
subsidiaries which have the U.S. dollar as the functional currency are
remeasured into U.S. dollars using current rates of exchange for monetary assets
and liabilities and historical rates of exchange for nonmonetary assets. Income
and expense items for these subsidiaries are remeasured using monthly average
exchange rates with resultant gains and losses included in the results of
operations. The financial statements for the Company's other international
subsidiaries are generally measured using the local currency as the functional
currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities of these subsidiaries are
translated at current rates of exchange at the balance sheet date. The resultant
gains and losses from translation are included as a component of stockholders'
equity. Income and expense items for these subsidiaries are translated using
monthly average exchange rates. Gains or losses resulting from remeasuring
monetary asset and liability accounts that are denominated in currencies other
than a subsidiary's functional currency are included as a component of financing
and other income (expense), net.
 
     Foreign Currency Hedging Instruments -- The Company enters into foreign
currency purchased option contracts and forward contracts to hedge its probable
anticipated, but not firmly committed, transactions and transactions with firm
foreign currency commitments. Realized and unrealized gains or losses and
premiums on foreign currency purchased option contracts that are designated and
effective as hedges of probable anticipated, but not firmly committed, foreign
currency transactions are deferred and recognized in income as a component of
revenue, cost of sales and/or operating expenses in the same period as the
hedged transaction. Forward contracts designated as hedges of probable
anticipated transactions are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis and are
included in revenue, cost of sales and/or operating expenses. Foreign currency
exposures related to transactions with firm foreign currency commitments are
generally hedged using forward contracts, which are accounted for on a
mark-to-market basis, with realized and unrealized gains and losses included in
financing and other income (expense), net as an offset to the underlying hedged
transaction.
 
     Interest Rate Management -- Interest rate differentials to be paid or
received on interest rate swaps that are designated to specific borrowings are
accrued and recognized as an adjustment to interest expense. Realized gains or
losses on terminated interest rate swap positions designated to specific
borrowings are recognized as an adjustment to interest expense over the original
life of the interest rate swaps.
 
     Investment Derivatives -- Derivative financial instruments that are not
designated to a specific asset or liability are considered investment
derivatives and are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis, with realized and
unrealized gains or losses recognized as incurred and included as a component of
financing and other income (expense), net. The Company discontinued its
investment derivative program in the second quarter of fiscal 1995.
 
     Option Contracts Indexed to the Company's Common Stock -- Put and call
options utilized in connection with the Company's stock repurchase program give
the Company the choice of net cash settlement or settlement in additional shares
of Common Stock. Proceeds received upon the sale of options and amounts paid
upon the purchase of options are recorded as a component of stockholders'
equity. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the option contracts are not
recognized. If the option contracts are ultimately settled in cash, the amount
of cash paid or received is recorded as a component of stockholders' equity.
 
                                       31
<PAGE>   33
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Revenue Recognition -- Sales revenue is recognized at the date of shipment
to customers. Provision is made currently for estimated product returns. Revenue
from separately priced extended warranty programs is deferred and recognized
over the extended warranty period, and the related extended warranty costs are
recognized as incurred.
 
     Warranty and Other Post-sales Support Programs -- The Company provides
currently for the estimated costs that may be incurred under its warranty and
other post-sales support programs.
 
     Advertising Costs -- Advertising costs, excluding the costs associated with
direct-response advertising, are charged to expense the first time the
advertising takes place. The costs of direct-response advertising are charged to
expense upon mailing. There were no direct-response advertising costs reported
as assets at January 28, 1996, and January 29, 1995. Advertising expenses for
fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994 were $83 million, $63 million and $77 million,
respectively.
 
     Income Taxes -- The provision for income taxes is based on earnings
reported in the financial statements under an asset and liability approach,
which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their
reported amounts for financial statement purposes.
 
     Earnings (Loss) Per Common Share -- Primary earnings (loss) per common
share are computed by dividing net income (loss) available to common
stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares and common stock
equivalents (if dilutive) outstanding during each period. Common stock
equivalents include stock options. The Convertible Preferred Stock is not a
common stock equivalent for purposes of computing earnings (loss) per common
share. The number of common stock equivalents outstanding is computed using the
treasury stock method. The weighted average shares outstanding used to compute
primary earnings per common share for fiscal 1996 includes the shares of Common
Stock issued upon conversion of Convertible Preferred Stock from the closing of
the conversion period until the end of the fiscal year. Shares used in the
calculation of fully diluted earnings (loss) per common share have been adjusted
for the assumed conversion of all of the Company's outstanding Convertible
Preferred Stock for all periods presented. See Note 7 -- Preferred Stock.
 
     Recently Issued Accounting Standards -- In March 1995, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" ("SFAS 121"). The Company has not elected
early adoption of SFAS 121; consequently, it will become effective beginning
with the Company's first quarter of fiscal 1997. Adoption of SFAS 121 will not
have a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of
operations.
 
     In October 1995, the FASB issued SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." The Company has not elected early adoption of SFAS 123;
consequently, it will become effective beginning with the Company's first
quarter of fiscal 1997. As permitted under SFAS 123, upon adoption, the Company
will continue to measure compensation expense for its stock-based employee
compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and
will provide pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings per share as if
the fair value-based method prescribed by SFAS 123 had been applied in measuring
compensation expense. Adoption of SFAS 123 will not have a material effect on
the Company's financial position or results of operations.
 
                                       32
<PAGE>   34
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 2 -- MARKETABLE SECURITIES
 
     The following table describes the Company's holdings of marketable
securities at January 28, 1996, and January 29, 1995. Contractual maturities of
debt securities, classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair value, are
included as of January 28, 1996.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  JANUARY 28, 1996
                                            ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    UNREALIZED    UNREALIZED                   PERCENT
                                            COST      GAINS         LOSSES      FAIR VALUE    FAIR VALUE
                                            ----    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT DATA)
<S>                                         <C>     <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Preferred stock...........................  $ 57        $--           $--          $ 57            10%
Mutual funds..............................    75        --            --             75            13
State and municipal securities:
  Maturities less than 60 days............   118        --            --            118            20
  Maturities 60 days to one year..........    68        --            --             68            11
  Maturities one to three years...........    12        --            --             12             2
U.S. corporate and bank debt:
  Maturities less than 60 days............   138        --            --            138            23
  Maturities 60 days to one year..........    58        --            --             58            10
  Maturities one to three years...........    17        --            --             17             3
International corporate and bank debt:
  Maturities less than 60 days............    44        --            --             44             7
  Maturities 60 days to one year..........     4        --            --              4             1
  Maturities one to three years...........    --        --            --             --            --
                                                        --            --
                                            ----                                   ----           ---
          Total marketable securities.....  $591        $--           $--          $591           100%
                                            ====        ==            ==           ====           ===
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  JANUARY 29, 1995
                                            ------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    UNREALIZED    UNREALIZED                   PERCENT
                                            COST      GAINS         LOSSES      FAIR VALUE    FAIR VALUE
                                            ----    ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                        (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT DATA)
<S>                                         <C>     <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Preferred stock...........................  $ 70        $--           $--          $ 70            14%
Mutual funds..............................    55        --            --             55            11
State and municipal securities............   188         1             1            188            39
U.S. corporate and bank debt..............   138        --             4            134            28
International corporate and bank debt.....    37        --            --             37             8
                                                        --            --
                                            ----                                   ----           ---
          Total marketable securities.....  $488        $1            $5           $484           100%
                                            ====        ==            ==           ====           ===
</TABLE>
 
     The Company's gross realized gains on the sale of marketable securities
were $0.3 million for fiscal 1996, $3 million for fiscal 1995 and $1 million for
fiscal 1994. Gross realized losses were $0.01 million, $24 million and $1
million for fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
                                       33
<PAGE>   35
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 3 -- FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair values
of the Company's financial instruments at January 28, 1996, and January 29,
1995:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      JANUARY 28, 1996        JANUARY 29, 1995
                                                     -------------------     -------------------
                                                     CARRYING      FAIR      CARRYING      FAIR
                                                      AMOUNT       VALUE      AMOUNT       VALUE
                                                     ---------     -----     ---------     -----
                                                                    (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                              <C>           <C>       <C>           <C>
    Nonderivative financial instruments:
      Assets:
         Marketable securities.....................    $ 591       $ 591       $ 484       $ 484
      Liabilities:
         Long-term debt............................      113         123         113         118
         Receive fixed/pay floating interest rate
           swaps...................................       --          (6)         --          (9)
         Receive floating/pay fixed interest rate
           swaps...................................       --          (2)         --          (1)
    Derivative financial instruments:
      Foreign currency option contracts:
         Assets....................................       38          33          15          15
      Forward contracts for firm foreign currency
         commitments:
           Assets..................................       25          25           5           5
           Liabilities.............................       14          14          --          --
</TABLE>
 
     Cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued and other
liabilities are reflected in the financial statements at fair value because of
the short-term maturity of these instruments.
 
     The fair value of marketable securities, long-term debt and interest rate
derivative instruments has been estimated by the Company based upon market
quotes from brokers. The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts has
been estimated using market quoted rates of foreign currencies at the applicable
balance sheet date. The estimated fair value of foreign currency purchased
option contracts is based on market quoted rates at the applicable balance sheet
date and the Black-Scholes options pricing model. Considerable judgment is
necessary in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value.
Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of
the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange. Changes
in assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
 
NOTE 4 -- FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT
 
FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     Foreign Currency Hedging Instruments -- The results of the Company's
international operations are affected by changes in exchange rates between
certain foreign currencies and the United States dollar. Beginning in fiscal
1996, the majority of the Company's international sales are made by
international subsidiaries which have the U.S. dollar as their functional
currency. The Company uses foreign currency purchased option contracts and
forward contracts in an effort to reduce its exposure to currency fluctuations
involving probable anticipated, but not firmly committed, transactions and
transactions with firm foreign currency commitments. The risk of loss associated
with purchased options is limited to premium amounts paid for the option
contracts, which could be significant. The risk of loss associated with forward
contracts is equal to the exchange rate differential from the time the contract
is made until the time it is settled.
 
                                       34
<PAGE>   36
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     Hedging of Probable Anticipated Transactions and Firm Foreign Currency
Commitments -- The Company enters into foreign currency purchased options and,
to a lesser extent, forward contracts to hedge a portion of its probable
anticipated, but not firmly committed, transactions. These transactions include
international sales by U.S. dollar functional currency entities, foreign
currency denominated purchases of certain components and intercompany shipments
to certain international subsidiaries. Foreign currency purchased options
generally expire in twelve months or less, and forward contracts generally
mature in three months or less. The principal currencies hedged are the German
mark, the British pound and the Japanese yen.
 
     Transactions with firm foreign currency commitments are generally hedged
using foreign currency forward contracts for periods not exceeding three months.
 
     At January 28, 1996, and January 29, 1995, the Company held purchased
option contracts that were designated and effective as hedges of probable
anticipated sales by international subsidiaries and intercompany shipments with
a total notional amount of $714 million and $434 million, respectively, and a
combined net realized and unrealized deferred loss of $5 million and $2 million,
respectively. At January 29, 1995, the Company held option contracts that were
designated and effective as hedges of probable anticipated foreign currency
denominated purchases with a total notional amount of $65 million and a combined
net realized and unrealized deferred gain of $2 million. During the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1996, the Company closed all option contracts that were
designated and effective as hedges of probable anticipated foreign currency
denominated purchases. At January 28, 1996, the net realized deferred loss
relating to these contracts was $7 million. Forward contracts designated to
hedge foreign currency transaction exposures of $365 million and $29 million
were outstanding at January 28, 1996, and January 29, 1995, respectively.
 
INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT
 
     The Company has also entered into certain interest rate derivative
instruments as a means of managing its interest rate risk and the interest costs
associated with its 11% Senior Notes Due August 15, 2000. See Note
6 -- Long-term Debt and Financing Arrangements.
 
INVESTMENT DERIVATIVES
 
     The Company has historically employed a variety of interest rate derivative
instruments to manage its principal, market and credit risks and enhance its
investment yield. Derivative instruments utilized included interest rate swaps,
written and purchased interest rate options and swaptions (options to enter into
interest rate swaps). Prior to June 1994, the Company structured derivative
instruments in interest rate markets where it had foreign operations. Interest
rate derivatives generally involve exchanges of interest payments based upon
fixed and floating interest rates without exchanges of underlying notional
amounts. For the first and second quarters of fiscal 1995, the average fair
value of these investment derivative financial instruments totaled ($12) million
and ($8) million, respectively. The Company closed all remaining investment
derivatives during the second quarter of fiscal 1995, and at the end of fiscal
1995 and throughout fiscal 1996, the Company had no investment derivatives
outstanding. Realized and unrealized net gains (losses) on investment
derivatives recognized in income for fiscal 1995 were ($24) million compared
with $5 million for fiscal 1994.
 
                                       35
<PAGE>   37
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 5 -- INCOME TAXES
 
     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                     -------------------------------------------
                                                     JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                        1996            1995            1994
                                                     -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                    (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                              <C>             <C>             <C>
    Current:
      Domestic.....................................      $102            $52             $ 29
      Foreign......................................        25             16                8
    Prepaid........................................       (16)            (4)             (40)
                                                         ----            ---             ----
    Provision for income taxes (benefit)...........      $111            $64             $ (3)
                                                         ====            ===             ====
</TABLE>
 
     Income (loss) before income taxes included approximately $176 million, $126
million and ($32) million related to foreign operations in the fiscal years
ended January 28, 1996, January 29, 1995 and January 30, 1994, respectively.
 
     The Company has not recorded a deferred income tax liability of
approximately $70 million for additional U.S. federal income taxes that would
result from the distribution of earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, if they
were repatriated. The Company currently intends to reinvest indefinitely the
undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries.
 
     The deferred tax asset is comprised of the following principal temporary
differences:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                        1996            1995            1994
                                                     -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                    (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                              <C>             <C>             <C>
    Depreciation...................................      $  5            $(5)            $--
    Provisions for doubtful accounts and returns...        25             23              20
    Inventory and warranty provisions..............        18             26              28
    Deferred service contract revenue..............        53             25               9
    Import promotion reserve.......................        (5)            --              --
    Other..........................................       (29)             9               7
                                                         ----            ---             ---
    Deferred tax asset.............................      $ 67            $78             $64
                                                         ====            ===             ===
</TABLE>
 
     The difference between the income tax provisions in the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the tax expense computed at the U.S. federal statutory
rate of 35% for each of the last three fiscal years is as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                     -------------------------------------------
                                                     JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                        1996            1995            1994
                                                     -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                    (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                              <C>             <C>             <C>
    Tax provision (benefit) at the U.S. federal
      statutory rate...............................     $ 134           $  75            $(14)
    Research and development credit................        (1)             (1)             (1)
    Foreign income taxed at different rate.........       (23)            (16)             10
    Net operating loss carryovers..................         1               2               4
    Other..........................................        --               4              (2)
                                                        -----           -----            ----
    Provision (benefit) for income taxes...........     $ 111           $  64            $ (3)
                                                        =====           =====            ====
    Effective tax rates............................      29.0%           30.0%            7.6%
                                                        =====           =====            ====
</TABLE>
 
                                       36
<PAGE>   38
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 6 -- LONG-TERM DEBT AND FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
 
     The following table sets forth the components of the Company's long-term
debt as of the end of each of the last two fiscal years:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,
                                                                     1996            1995
                                                                  -----------     -----------
                                                                         (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                                           <C>             <C>
    11% Senior Notes Due August 15, 2000........................      $100            $100
    Facility loan...............................................        14              14
                                                                      ----            ----
                                                                       114             114
    Less -- current portion.....................................         1               1
                                                                      ----            ----
                                                                      $113            $113
                                                                      ====            ====
</TABLE>
 
     On August 26, 1993, the Company issued $100 million of 11% Senior Notes Due
August 15, 2000 (the "Senior Notes"). Interest on the Senior Notes is payable
semiannually, on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The Senior Notes are
redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time on or
after August 15, 1998, at redemption prices decreasing from 103.50% to 101.75%
of principal, depending upon the redemption date, plus accrued interest to the
date of redemption. The Indenture governing the Senior Notes contains certain
covenants, including limitations on the amount of future indebtedness and
restrictions on the payment of cash dividends on Common Stock under certain
circumstances. However, the covenants limiting future indebtedness may be
inapplicable from time to time if the Senior Notes are assigned an investment
grade rating by both of the major rating services.
 
     Concurrently with the issuance of the Senior Notes, the Company entered
into interest rate swap agreements to reduce its related interest costs. The
swap agreements effectively changed the Company's interest rate exposure from a
fixed-rate to a floating-rate basis. However, in response to increasing interest
rates, in August 1994, the Company entered into offsetting swap agreements to
effectively change its interest rate exposure from a floating-rate basis to a
fixed-rate basis. The interest rate swap agreements mature on August 15, 1998,
the first available redemption date of the Senior Notes. At both January 28,
1996, and January 29, 1995, the Company had outstanding receive fixed/pay
floating interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional amount of $100 million
offset by receive floating/pay fixed interest rate swaps with an aggregate
notional amount of $100 million. The weighted average interest rate, adjusted by
the swaps, was 13.8%, 12.1% and 9.5% for fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. At January 28, 1996, the Company was paying a net interest cost of
13.8% on the Senior Notes.
 
     In December 1994, the Company obtained a $14 million loan secured by a
224,000-square-foot office building in Round Rock, Texas (with a net book value
of $23 million at January 28, 1996). The loan is for 15 years at an interest
rate of 10.28%; monthly payments of principal and interest, payable in arrears,
began in February 1995. The amount of principal payments due under the loan over
the next five fiscal years is as follows: 1997, $.5 million; 1998, $.5 million;
1999, $.6 million; 2000, $.6 million; and 2001, $.7 million.
 
     During fiscal 1996, the Company entered into a series of line of credit
facilities, each of which bears interest at a defined Base Rate or Eurocurrency
Rate and has a covenant based on quarterly maintenance of net worth. Maximum
aggregate amounts available under these credit facilities are limited to $200
million less the aggregate of outstanding letters of credit under these
facilities. During the commitment period, the Company is obligated to pay a fee
on the unused portion of the credit facilities. No borrowings or letters of
credit were outstanding under these credit facilities as of January 28, 1996,
and the maximum available totaled $200 million.
 
                                       37
<PAGE>   39
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     On November 30, 1995, several of the Company's subsidiaries entered into a
transaction pursuant to which Dell Receivables L.P. ("Dell Receivables"), a
newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, purchases certain accounts
receivable and related assets from other Company subsidiaries and in turn
transfers such accounts receivable and related assets to the Dell Trade
Receivable Master Trust (the "Master Trust"). The Master Trust will issue
certificates evidencing fractional undivided interests therein, which
certificates may be sold to investors. This arrangement gives Dell Receivables
the ability to raise up to $150 million through the sale of certificates of
interest in the Master Trust and replaced the Company's receivables
securitization arrangement that was scheduled to expire on June 22, 1996. Dell
Receivables is obligated to pay a commitment fee on the unused portion of the
facility. At January 28, 1996, this facility was unused. During fiscal 1994, the
Company sold $85 million of receivables pursuant to the terms of its previous
receivables securitization arrangement. The discount on sale of receivables was
included in financing and other income (expense), net. All such receivables sold
were collected during fiscal 1994. The previous facility was unused in fiscal
1995 and 1996.
 
     In fiscal 1994, the Company repaid its borrowings under Section 84 of
Ireland's Corporation Tax Act of 1976 and retired its commercial paper program.
 
NOTE 7 -- PREFERRED STOCK
 
     The Company has the authority to issue 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock,
par value $.01 per share. The rights and preferences of shares of authorized but
unissued preferred stock will be established by the Company's Board of Directors
at the time of issuance.
 
     Series A Convertible Preferred Stock -- On August 26, 1993, the Company
sold 1,250,000 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "Convertible
Preferred Stock"), generating net proceeds of $120 million after deducting
related issuance costs. Each outstanding share of Convertible Preferred Stock
entitles its holder to receive annual cumulative cash dividends of $7 and may be
converted into 8.421 shares of Common Stock (equivalent to a conversion price of
$11.875 per share of Common Stock), subject to adjustment to prevent dilution in
certain circumstances. In the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation,
each outstanding share of Convertible Preferred Stock entitles its holder to
receive up to $100 per share plus any accrued but unpaid dividends (a total of
$6 million at January 28, 1996). The Convertible Preferred Stock is not
redeemable before August 25, 1996. Beginning August 25, 1996, the Convertible
Preferred Stock may be redeemed by the Company, at its option, in whole or in
part at any time at a redemption price per share decreasing from $104.67 to
$100, depending on the redemption date, together with any accrued but unpaid
dividends. Dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock are cumulative, have
priority over dividends on Common Stock and must be paid in the event of
liquidation and before any distribution to holders of Common Stock.
 
     So long as any Convertible Preferred Stock is outstanding, the Company may
not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3%
(unless a higher percentage is required by applicable law) of all outstanding
shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, enter into certain transactions that may
adversely affect the relative rights, preferences, qualifications, limitations
or restrictions of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
     The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock have no voting rights unless
dividends on the Convertible Preferred Stock have not been paid for six
consecutive quarters. Under those circumstances, the number of members of the
Company's Board of Directors will be increased by two, and the holders of the
Convertible Preferred Stock will be entitled to elect such two additional
directors at any meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected
held during the period such dividends remain in arrears.
 
                                       38
<PAGE>   40
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     On February 21, 1995, the Company offered to pay a cash premium of $8.25
for each outstanding share of Convertible Preferred Stock that was converted to
Common Stock. The offer of premium upon conversion was available to holders of
the Convertible Preferred Stock through the closing of the special conversion
period on March 22, 1995. Holders of 1,190,000 shares of Convertible Preferred
Stock elected to convert and, as a result, received an aggregate of
approximately 10 million shares of Common Stock and $10 million in cash during
the first quarter of fiscal 1996. The $10 million conversion premium and $1
million of expenses of the conversion offer were treated as an additional
dividend on the Convertible Preferred Stock for financial reporting purposes.
Accordingly, $12 million, comprised of the conversion premium, conversion offer
expenses and dividends, were deducted from net income for fiscal 1996 to
determine the net income available to common stockholders. In addition, the
weighted average shares outstanding used to compute primary earnings per common
share for fiscal 1996 includes the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion
from the closing of the conversion period until the end of fiscal 1996.
 
     Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock -- In conjunction with the
distribution of Preferred Share Purchase Rights (see Note 10 -- Preferred Share
Purchase Rights), the Company's Board of Directors designated 200,000 shares of
preferred stock as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("Junior
Preferred Stock") and reserved such shares for issuance upon exercise of the
Preferred Share Purchase Rights. Each share of Junior Preferred Stock will be
entitled to an aggregate dividend equal to the greater of $1.00 per share or
1,000 times the dividend declared on the Common Stock. Upon liquidation, each
share of Junior Preferred Stock will be entitled to an aggregate liquidation
payment equal to the greater of $1,000 or 1,000 times the payment made per share
of Common Stock. Each share of Junior Preferred Stock will have 1,000 votes,
voting together with the Common Stock. In the event of any merger, consolidation
or other transaction in which Common Stock is exchanged, each share of Junior
Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive 1,000 times the amount received per
share of Common Stock. Shares of Junior Preferred Stock will be nonredeemable.
At January 28, 1996, no shares of Junior Preferred Stock were issued or
outstanding.
 
NOTE 8 -- COMMON STOCK
 
     On July 21, 1995, the Company's stockholders approved an amendment to the
Company's Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of
Common Stock that the Company is authorized to issue from 100 million to 300
million. The amendment became effective on August 3, 1995.
 
     On October 9, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one
Common Stock split, payable in the form of a 100% stock dividend to stockholders
of record as of October 20, 1995. The distribution of such dividend occurred on
October 27, 1995. All share and per share information has been retroactively
restated in the Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect the stock split.
 
     Stock Repurchase Program - Subsequent Event (unaudited) -- On February 22,
1996, the Company announced a stock repurchase program under which the Company
may purchase up to 12 million shares of Common Stock in open market or private
transactions. The repurchase program is intended to provide shares for issuance
to employees under the Company's stock-based employee benefit plans. The total
number of shares to be purchased will be based on several factors, including the
level of stock issuances pursuant to employee awards, the price of the Common
Stock and other general market conditions. Purchases may be made in the open
market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time at management's
discretion. The Company may also utilize equity options as part of the
repurchase program.
 
                                       39
<PAGE>   41
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     As of March 22, 1996, the Company had repurchased a total of 3.3 million
shares of Common Stock under the repurchase program, for an aggregate purchase
price of $100 million (average cost of $30.50 per share). All such shares were
purchased in open market transactions.
 
     In addition, as of March 22, 1996, the Company had entered into equity
"collar" arrangements with respect to an aggregate of 2.8 million additional
shares of Common Stock by selling put options (which entitle the holder of the
option to sell shares of Common Stock to the Company at a specified price) and
purchasing call options (which entitle the Company to purchase shares of Common
Stock from the holder of the option at a specified price). The put prices range
from $29.36 to $34.62 per share, while the call prices range from $32.30 to
$38.09 per share. In some of the arrangements, the call price may be increased
if the per-share market price of the Common Stock at the time of exercise
exceeds a specified price. Each option is exercisable only at expiration, and
the expiration dates range from September 3, 1996, to September 20, 1996. The
potential cost of repurchasing the shares subject to these option arrangements
ranges from $90.7 million (average cost of $32.35 per share) to $99.9 million
(average cost of $35.63 per share), not taking into account any increase in the
call prices described above. For a description of the accounting treatment of
these options, see "Option Contracts Indexed to the Company's Common Stock" in
Note 1 -- Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies.
 
NOTE 9 -- EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
 
     Employee Stock Purchase Plan -- The Company has an employee stock purchase
plan that qualifies under Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code and permits
substantially all employees to purchase shares of Common Stock. Participating
employees may purchase Common Stock at the end of each participation period at a
purchase price equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value of the Common
Stock at the beginning or the end of the participation period. Participation
periods are semi-annual and begin on January 1 and July 1 of each year.
Employees may designate up to 10% of their base compensation for the purchase of
Common Stock under the plan. Common Stock reserved for future employee purchases
under the plan aggregated 2,331,251 shares at January 28, 1996, and 2,741,184
shares at January 29, 1995. Shares issued under this plan were 409,933 shares in
fiscal 1996, 568,888 shares in fiscal 1995 and 477,078 shares in fiscal 1994.
There have been no charges to income in connection with the issuance of these
shares.
 
     401(k) Plan -- The Company has a defined contribution retirement plan that
complies with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Substantially all
employees in the U.S. are eligible to participate in the plan. Currently,
eligibility for participation commences upon hire. Under the terms of the plan,
the Company currently matches 100% of each employee participant's voluntary
contributions, subject to a maximum Company contribution of 3% of the employee's
compensation. Prior to January 1, 1995, the Company matched 50% of the
participant's voluntary contributions, again subject to a maximum Company
contribution of 3% of the employee's compensation. The Company's matching
contributions are made in the form of Common Stock. During fiscal 1996, the
Company made a one-time contribution for every eligible employee, regardless of
whether the employee was a plan participant, equal to 2% of the employee's
actual earnings during calendar year 1995. The Company accrues for its estimated
matching contributions each period. Shares are issued to the plan based on the
fair market value of the Common Stock at the time of issuance. The amounts
expensed for the Company's matching and other contributions during fiscal years
1996, 1995 and 1994 were $8 million, $4 million and $3 million, respectively.
 
     Stock Option and Incentive Plans -- On June 22, 1994, the Company's
stockholders approved the Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan (the
"Incentive Plan"), which effectively replaced the 1993 Stock Option Plan (the
"1993 Plan") and the 1989 Stock Option Plan (the "1989 Plan"). At the time the
Incentive Plan was approved, 9,001,846 shares of Common Stock were authorized
for issuance under the Incentive Plan; that amount equaled the remaining shares
authorized for
 
                                       40
<PAGE>   42
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
issuance under the 1993 Plan and the 1989 Plan. On July 21,1995, the Company's
stockholders approved an amendment to the Incentive Plan to increase the number
of shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance under the Incentive Plan by 8
million shares. The Incentive Plan, which is administered by the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors, provides for the granting of incentive
awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), stock
and cash to directors, executive officers and key employees of the Company and
its subsidiaries, and certain other persons who provide consulting or advisory
services to the Company. Awards under the Incentive Plan must be granted within
ten years of the plan adoption date. Options granted may be either incentive
stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code or
nonqualified options. The right to purchase shares under the existing stock
option agreements typically vest over a five-year period beginning on the
option's date of grant. Stock options must be exercised within ten years from
date of grant. Stock options are generally issued at fair market value. For
stock options that have been issued at discounted prices, the Company accrues
compensation expense over the vesting period for the difference between the
exercise price and the fair market value on the measurement date. In accordance
with the intrinsic value method prescribed by Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25, no compensation expense has been recognized for options granted
with an exercise price equal to market value at the date of grant. Options
vesting over a ten-year period with an exercise price of $.005 per share were
granted to certain key employees in fiscal 1995 and fiscal 1994 at fair market
values ranging from $12.44 to $13.97 and $9.25 to $18.25 in fiscal 1995 and
fiscal 1994, respectively.
 
     During fiscal 1996, the Company implemented a discounted stock option
program under the Incentive Plan. Under this program, certain members of
management may elect, on an annual basis, to receive discounted stock options in
lieu of all or a portion of the annual bonus that they would otherwise receive.
The exercise price of the options is 80% of the fair market value of the Common
Stock on the date of issuance. The number of shares subject to any such option
is dependent on the amount of bonus a participant designates for the program and
is calculated by dividing the designated bonus amount by 20% of the fair market
value of the Common Stock on the date of issuance. The options are fully vested
at the time of issuance but are not exercisable for a period of one year. All
decisions regarding participation in the program and the amount of bonus to
designate must be made several months in advance of the anticipated bonus
payment date. The program will first be effective for bonuses paid in March 1996
with respect to fiscal 1996.
 
     During fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995, the Company granted 688,884 shares and
280,000 shares, respectively, of restricted stock. For substantially all
restricted stock grants, at the date of grant, the recipient has all rights of a
stockholder, subject to certain restrictions on transferability and a risk of
forfeiture. Restricted shares typically vest over a seven-year period beginning
on the date of grant; restrictions may not extend more than ten years from date
of grant. The Company records unearned compensation equal to the market value of
the restricted shares on the date of grant and charges the unearned compensation
to expense over the restricted shares' vesting period. Prior to the second
quarter of fiscal 1996, the unearned compensation was combined with additional
paid-in capital. The unearned compensation associated with restricted stock at
January 28, 1996, has been included in stockholders' equity in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position; the prior period amount has been reclassified
to conform with the current year presentation.
 
     Under the Incentive Plan, each nonemployee director of the Company
automatically receives nonqualified stock options on the day after the first
Board of Directors meeting he or she attends as a nonemployee director. In
addition, each nonemployee director who is a member of the Board of Directors as
of both the day before and the day after the Company's annual meeting of
stockholders each year automatically receives nonqualified stock options on the
date of the first Board of Directors meeting following the annual meeting of
stockholders.
 
                                       41
<PAGE>   43
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
     The following table summarizes stock option activity under the plans for
each of the three fiscal years ended January 28, 1996:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                STOCK OPTION PLANS
                                                         --------------------------------
                                                                               NUMBER OF
                                                           PRICE RANGE          SHARES
                                                         ----------------     -----------
    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
    Outstanding at January 31, 1993....................     $.005-$18.155      10,087,976
      Granted..........................................     $.005-$18.155       5,011,180
      Canceled.........................................     $.005-$15.345      (2,409,628)
      Exercised........................................     $.005-$11.830      (1,452,824)
                                                                               ----------
    Outstanding at January 30, 1994....................     $.005-$18.155      11,236,704
      Granted..........................................     $.005-$23.315       4,322,498
      Canceled.........................................     $.005-$15.345      (1,641,102)
      Exercised........................................     $.005-$18.155      (2,735,054)
                                                                               ----------
    Outstanding at January 29, 1995....................     $.005-$23.315      11,183,046
      Granted..........................................   $20.125-$48.500       3,987,082
      Canceled.........................................     $.005-$44.750        (988,967)
      Exercised........................................     $.005-$22.095      (2,480,912)
                                                                               ----------
    Outstanding at January 28, 1996....................     $.005-$48.500      11,700,249
                                                                               ==========
</TABLE>
 
     Options on 2,324,451 shares were exercisable under the plans at January 28,
1996. There were 8,480,235, 4,819,228 and 8,558,900 shares of Common Stock
available for future grants under the plans at January 28, 1996, January 29,
1995, and January 30, 1994, respectively. On August 24, 1993, the Company
granted 781,246 nonqualified options to purchase its Common Stock at $9.345 per
share under the 1993 Plan in exchange for cancellation of outstanding options to
purchase its Common Stock for $15.345 that had been previously granted under the
1989 Plan. Pursuant to the exchange agreement, vesting of those options was to
occur on the earlier of August 24, 2002, or the date that the Common Stock had
traded for 30 consecutive days at or above $16.345 per share; such vesting
occurred in fiscal 1995.
 
NOTE 10 -- PREFERRED SHARE PURCHASE RIGHTS
 
     On November 29, 1995, the Company's Board of Directors declared a dividend
of one Preferred Share Purchase Right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of
Common Stock. The distribution of the Rights was made on December 13, 1995, to
the stockholders of record on that date. Each Right entitles the holder to
purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Junior Preferred Stock at an exercise
price of $225. See Note 7 -- Preferred Stock. The Rights will be exercisable
only if a person or group acquires 15% or more of the Common Stock or announces
a tender offer, the consummation of which would result in such person or group
owning 15% or more of the Common Stock.
 
     If a person or group acquires 15% or more of the outstanding Common Stock,
each Right will entitle the holder (other than such person or any member of such
group) to purchase, at the Right's then current exercise price, the number of
shares of Common Stock having a market value of twice the exercise price of the
Right. In addition, if the Company is involved in a merger or other business
combination transaction at any time after the Rights have become exercisable,
each Right will entitle its holder to purchase, at the Right's then current
exercise price, the number of the acquiring company's common shares having a
market value at that time of twice the exercise price of the Right. Furthermore,
at any time after a person or group acquires 15% or more of the outstanding
 
                                       42
<PAGE>   44
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
Common Stock but prior to the acquisition of 50% of such stock, the Board of
Directors may, at its option, exchange part or all of the Rights (other than
Rights held by the acquiring person or group) for shares of Common Stock at an
exchange rate of one share of Common Stock for each Right.
 
     The Company will be entitled to redeem the Rights at $.001 per Right at any
time before a 15% or greater position has been acquired by any person or group.
Additionally, the Company may lower the 15% threshold to not less than the
greater of (a) any percentage greater than the largest percentage of Common
Stock known by the Company to be owned by any person (other than Michael S.
Dell) or (b) 10%. The Rights expire on November 29, 2005.
 
     Neither the ownership nor the further acquisition of Common Stock by
Michael S. Dell will cause the Rights to become exercisable or nonredeemable or
will trigger the other features of the Rights.
 
NOTE 11 -- COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENCIES AND CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS
 
     Lease Commitments -- The Company leases property and equipment,
manufacturing facilities and office space under non-cancelable leases. Certain
leases obligate the Company to pay taxes, maintenance and repair costs. Future
minimum payments under these leases at January 28, 1996, are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

    
                                                                
                                                                               OPERATING
    FISCAL YEAR                                                                  LEASES
    -----------                                                               -------------
                                                                              (IN MILLIONS)
    <S>                                                                       <C>
    1997....................................................................       $21
    1998....................................................................        16
    1999....................................................................        13
    2000....................................................................         9
    2001....................................................................         6
    Thereafter..............................................................        19
                                                                                   ---
              Total minimum lease payments required.........................       $84
                                                                                   ===
</TABLE>
 
     Rental expense recorded under all operating leases was $22 million, $20
million and $19 million for the fiscal years ended 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
 
     Royalty Commitments -- The Company is subject to certain patent royalty
agreements that require fixed cash payments with scheduled increases over
approximately the next three years. The Company is also subject to ongoing
software royalty agreements for periods exceeding twelve months which require
cash payments.
 
     Legal Matters -- Set forth below is a discussion of certain legal
proceedings involving the Company, some of which could have a material adverse
effect on the Company if resolved in a manner unfavorable to the Company. The
Company is also party to other legal proceedings incidental to its business,
none of which the Company believes to be material.
 
     The Company has been named as a defendant in approximately 30 repetitive
stress injury lawsuits, most of which are in New York state courts or United
States District Courts for the New York City area. Several are in state courts
in New Jersey. One is in the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania, and one is in Federal District Court in Kansas. Two cases have
been dismissed; the remainder are at various stages of the process leading to
trial. The allegations in all of these lawsuits are similar. Each plaintiff
alleges that he or she suffers from symptoms generally known as "repetitive
stress injury," which allegedly were caused by the design or manufacture of the
keyboard supplied with the computer the plaintiff used. The Company has
 
                                       43
<PAGE>   45
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
denied or is in the process of denying the claims and intends to vigorously
defend the suits. The suits naming the Company are just a few of many lawsuits
of this type that have been filed, often naming Apple, Atex, Compaq, IBM,
Keytronic and other major suppliers of keyboard products. The Company currently
is not able to predict the outcome of these suits. It is possible that the
Company may be named in additional suits. Ultimate resolution of the litigation
against the Company may depend on progress in resolving this type of litigation
overall. However, the Company does not believe that the outcome of these matters
will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations.
 
     On August 11, 1993, the Company received a subpoena from the United States
Department of Commerce, Office of Export Enforcement of the Bureau of Export
Administration, requiring the Company to provide all documents relative to any
and all exports of 486/66 personal computers or related components to Russia,
Ireland, Iran or Iraq during the period from January 1992 through August 1993 in
connection with an investigation to enforce regulations under the Export
Administration Act of 1979, as amended. The investigation has been closed, with
no findings of wrongdoing by the Company, with respect to the Company's
shipments to Russia, Ireland and Iraq. The Company is awaiting a response from
the Department of Commerce regarding its voluntary self disclosure of certain
shipments to Iran in June 1992. If the Office of Export Enforcement's
investigators determine that the Company has violated applicable regulations,
the government could potentially file civil or criminal charges. The Company has
fully responded to the subpoena and, in accordance with its policy to comply
fully with export laws and regulations, intends to cooperate with the Office of
Export Enforcement. The Company does not believe that this investigation or its
outcome will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition
or results of operations.
 
     In May 1995, the Company was named, along with two other personal computer
manufacturers and one computer monitor vendor, in a class action complaint filed
in the California Superior Court for Marin County. Subsequently, several other
similar actions were filed in California Superior Courts for other counties,
naming a total of 48 defendants, including the Company. The complaints in all of
these cases allege that each of the defendants has engaged in false or
misleading advertising with regard to the size of computer monitor screens. The
plaintiffs seek restitution in the form of refunds or product exchange, damages,
punitive damages and attorneys' fees. The California Judicial Council, in
December 1995, ordered all of these similar cases consolidated for proceedings
up to and including trial and, in January 1996, appointed a single trial judge
for the consolidated proceeding. The judge has ordered all proceedings stayed
until March 29, 1996, when a status conference is scheduled. The Company plans
to vigorously contest the allegations of the complaints. This litigation is
currently at a preliminary stage and no discovery has occurred. Thus, it is too
early for the Company to adequately evaluate the likelihood of the plaintiffs'
prevailing on their claims. There can be no assurance that an adverse
determination in this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial condition or results of operations.
 
     In June 1995, the Company was served with a class action complaint filed in
State District Court in Travis County, Texas. The complaint alleges that the
Company has included "used parts" in its "new" computer systems and has failed
to adequately inform its customers and prospective customers of that practice.
According to the complaint, these facts constitute fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, breach of contract and breach of warranty. The plaintiffs
seek refund of the purchase price for computer systems purchased from the
Company, damages in an unspecified amount, injunctive relief, interest and
attorneys' fees. The Company plans to vigorously contest the allegations of the
complaint. This litigation is currently at a preliminary stage, and no discovery
has occurred. Thus, it is too early for the Company to adequately evaluate the
likelihood of the plaintiffs' prevailing on their claims. There can be no
assurance that an adverse determination in this litigation
 
                                       44
<PAGE>   46
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations.
 
     Certain Concentrations -- All of the Company's foreign exchange and
interest rate derivative instruments involve elements of market and credit risk
in excess of the amounts recognized in the financial statements. The
counterparties to financial instruments consist of a number of major financial
institutions. In addition to limiting the amount of agreements and contracts it
enters into with any one party, the Company monitors its positions with and the
credit quality of the counterparties to these financial instruments. The Company
does not anticipate nonperformance by any of the counterparties.
 
     The Company has business activities with large corporate, government,
medical and education customers, small-to-medium businesses and individuals and
value-added resellers. Its receivables from such parties are well diversified.
The Company places its marketable securities with high quality financial
institutions and other companies and currently invests primarily in equity
securities and debt instruments that have maturities of less than three years.
The Company's receivables, marketable securities and financial instruments
holdings are subject to potential credit risk. However, in management's opinion,
no significant concentration of credit risk exists for the Company. There can be
no assurance that the credit quality of the financial institutions with which
the Company invests or transacts business will be stable or that efforts to
diversify receivables, investments or financial instrument holdings will prevent
the Company from incurring material losses.
 
     The Company purchases a significant number of components from single
sources. In some cases, alternative sources of supply are not available. In
other cases, the Company may establish a working relationship with a single
source, even when multiple suppliers are available, if the Company believes it
is advantageous to do so due to performance, quality, support, delivery,
capacity or price considerations. Key components currently obtained from single
sources include certain of the Company's displays, application specific
integrated circuits and other custom chips, microprocessors, unconfigured base
notebook computers and lithium ion batteries used in certain of the Company's
notebook computers. Additionally, the Company often initially uses custom
components obtained from a single source in its new products until it has
determined whether there is a need for additional suppliers. If the supply of a
critical single-sourced material or component were delayed or curtailed, the
Company's ability to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a
timely manner could be adversely affected. Even where alternative sources of
supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and
establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of
sales, which could affect operating results adversely.
 
NOTE 12 -- OTHER CHARGES
 
     During the first half of fiscal 1994, the Company reevaluated and
subsequently canceled its existing notebook product line, recording more than
$39 million of charges due to the notebook inventory write-downs and delayed and
canceled notebook projects. The Company re-entered the notebook computer market
with a phased approach beginning with the introduction, on February 21, 1994, of
the 486-based Dell Latitude family of notebook computers.
 
     During the first half of fiscal 1994, the Company also recorded $29 million
of other costs, consisting of $14 million of inventory write-downs due to excess
components, $12 million of costs incurred for the cancellation of certain
contracts and a $3 million reserve established for litigation in connection with
a stockholder suit. The inventory write-downs and the cancellation charges arose
from the Company's determination that certain products and inventory were excess
or obsolete because the products were scheduled to be replaced with newer
products or because the Company
 
                                       45
<PAGE>   47
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
otherwise had lowered its estimates of expected demand for materials in
inventory or under outstanding purchase commitments.
 
     During the first half of fiscal 1994, the Company recorded $23 million for
the costs of restructuring certain of its operations. The charge included $10
million for asset write-downs, $8 million related to the consolidation of
operations and $5 million for employee severance payments. Most of these
restructuring charges were associated with consolidating certain common
functions in the European subsidiaries and creating regional business units.
Approximately 60% of these charges were cash provisions, approximately half of
which were incurred in fiscal 1994. During fiscal 1995, the Company completed
certain of the consolidations and closure of a subsidiary. There were no
reserves for restructuring remaining at January 29, 1995.
 
NOTE 13 -- GEOGRAPHIC AREA INFORMATION
 
     The Company operates in one principal business segment across
geographically diverse markets. The Americas region includes the United States,
Canada and Latin America. Substantially all of Americas operating results and
identifiable assets are in the United States. Transfers between geographic areas
are recorded using internal transfer prices set by the Company. Certain prior
year amounts have been reclassified to separately reflect general corporate
expenses and assets and to allocate the operating results and assets of the
Company's product development group to the geographic regions. In prior years,
the operating results and assets of both the general corporate operations and
the product development group were included in the Americas region.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                FISCAL YEAR 1996
                                       ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              ASIA PACIFIC
                                       AMERICAS    EUROPE      AND JAPAN      ELIMINATION    CONSOLIDATED
                                       --------    -------    ------------    -----------    ------------
                                                                 (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                    <C>         <C>        <C>             <C>            <C>
Sales to unaffiliated customers......   $3,474      $1,478         $344           $  --          $5,296
Transfers between geographic areas...       66         192           --            (258)             --
                                        ------      ------         ----           -----          ------
          Total sales................   $3,540      $1,670         $344           $(258)         $5,296
                                        ======      ======         ====           =====          ======
Operating income (loss)..............   $  285      $  171         $(21)          $  --          $  435
                                        ======      ======         ====           =====
Corporate expenses, net..............                                                               (58)
                                                                                                 ------
          Total operating income.....                                                            $  377
                                                                                                 ======
Identifiable assets..................   $  867      $  409         $123           $  --          $1,399
                                        ======      ======         ====           =====
General corporate assets.............                                                               749
                                                                                                 ------
          Total assets...............                                                            $2,148
                                                                                                 ======
</TABLE>
 
                                       46
<PAGE>   48
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                FISCAL YEAR 1995
                                       ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              ASIA PACIFIC
                                       AMERICAS    EUROPE      AND JAPAN      ELIMINATION    CONSOLIDATED
                                       --------    -------    ------------    -----------    ------------
                                                                 (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                    <C>         <C>        <C>             <C>            <C>
Sales to unaffiliated customers......  $ 2,400     $   953       $  122         $    --        $  3,475
Transfers between geographic areas...       35         129           --            (164)             --
                                       -------     -------       ------         -------        --------
          Total sales................  $ 2,435     $ 1,082       $  122         $  (164)       $  3,475
                                       =======     =======       ======         =======        ========
Operating income (loss)..............  $   174     $   123       $   (2)        $    --        $    295
                                       =======     =======       ======         =======
Corporate expenses, net..............                                                               (46)
                                                                                               --------
          Total operating income.....                                                          $    249
                                                                                               ========
Identifiable assets..................  $   638     $   286       $   43         $    --        $    967
                                       =======     =======       ======         =======
General corporate assets.............                                                               627
                                                                                               --------
          Total assets...............                                                          $  1,594
                                                                                               ========
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                FISCAL YEAR 1994
                                       ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              ASIA PACIFIC
                                       AMERICAS    EUROPE      AND JAPAN      ELIMINATION    CONSOLIDATED
                                       --------    -------    ------------    -----------    ------------
                                                                 (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                    <C>         <C>        <C>             <C>            <C>
Sales to unaffiliated customers......  $ 2,037     $   782       $   54         $    --        $  2,873
Transfers between geographic areas...       35         109           --            (144)             --
                                       -------     -------       ------         -------        --------
          Total sales................  $ 2,072     $   891       $   54         $  (144)       $  2,873
                                       =======     =======       ======         =======        ========
Operating income (loss)..............  $    18     $   (15)      $   (5)        $    --        $     (2)
                                       =======     =======       ======         =======      
Corporate expenses, net..............                                                               (37)
                                                                                               --------
          Total operating loss.......                                                          $    (39)
                                                                                               ========
Identifiable assets..................  $   512     $   198       $   14         $    --        $    724
                                       =======     =======       ======         =======      
General corporate assets.............                                                               416
                                                                                               --------
          Total assets...............                                                          $  1,140
                                                                                               ========
</TABLE>
 
                                       47
<PAGE>   49
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 14 -- SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,
                                                                         1996            1995
                                                                      -----------     -----------
                                                                             (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                                   <C>             <C>
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
  INFORMATION
Accounts receivable:
  Gross accounts receivable.........................................    $   755          $ 564
  Allowance for doubtful accounts...................................        (29)           (26)
                                                                        -------          -----
                                                                        $   726          $ 538
                                                                        =======          =====
Inventories:
  Production materials..............................................    $   390          $ 262
  Work-in-process and finished goods................................         39             31
                                                                        -------          -----
                                                                        $   429          $ 293
                                                                        =======          =====
Other current assets:
  Deferred premiums and other foreign exchange contracts............    $    71          $  20
  Deferred income taxes.............................................         67             78
  Other.............................................................         18             14
                                                                        -------          -----
                                                                        $   156          $ 112
                                                                        =======          =====
Property, plant and equipment:
  Land and buildings................................................    $    92          $  42
  Computer equipment................................................         92             73
  Office furniture and fixtures.....................................         26             23
  Machinery and other equipment.....................................         45             36
  Leasehold improvements............................................         37             34
                                                                        -------          -----
  Total property, plant and equipment...............................        292            208
  Accumulated depreciation and amortization.........................       (113)           (91)
                                                                        -------          -----
                                                                        $   179          $ 117
                                                                        =======          =====
Accrued and other liabilities:
  Royalties and licensing...........................................    $    51          $  35
  Accrued compensation..............................................         52             35
  Accrued warranty costs............................................         78             66
  Taxes other than income taxes.....................................         76             40
  Deferred profit on warranty contracts.............................         67             22
  Book overdrafts...................................................         59             44
  Other.............................................................         90            107
                                                                        -------          -----
                                                                        $   473          $ 349
                                                                        =======          =====
</TABLE>
 
                                       48
<PAGE>   50
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                         -------------------------------------------
                                                         JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                            1996            1995            1994
                                                         -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                        (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
  INFORMATION
Research, development and engineering expenses:
  Research and development expenses....................    $    51         $    39         $    36
  Engineering expenses.................................         44              26              13
                                                           -------         -------         -------
                                                           $    95         $    65         $    49
                                                           =======         =======         =======
Financing and other income (expense), net:
  Investment income (loss), net:
     Marketable securities.............................    $    25         $    (7)        $     9
     Investment derivatives............................         --             (24)              5
  Interest expense.....................................        (15)            (12)             (9)
  Foreign currency transactions........................         (1)              3               1
  International year-end transition....................         --               6              --
  Other................................................         (3)             (2)             (6)
                                                           -------         -------         -------
                                                           $     6         $   (36)        $    --
                                                           =======         =======         =======
Weighted average shares used to compute earnings (loss)
  per common share:
     Primary...........................................       97.1            83.1            74.7
                                                           =======         =======         =======
     Fully diluted.....................................       98.7            94.6              --
                                                           =======         =======         =======
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                         -------------------------------------------
                                                         JANUARY 28,     JANUARY 29,     JANUARY 30,
                                                            1996            1995            1994
                                                         -----------     -----------     -----------
                                                                        (IN MILLIONS)
<S>                                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
SUPPLEMENTAL CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
  INFORMATION
Changes in operating working capital accounts:
  Accounts receivable, net.............................    $  (184)        $  (117)        $   (45)
  Inventories..........................................       (138)            (72)             82
  Accounts payable.....................................         59             129              (4)
  Accrued and other liabilities........................        126              80              66
  Other, net...........................................        (46)            (23)             (2)
                                                           -------         -------         -------
                                                           $  (183)        $    (3)        $    97
                                                           =======         =======         =======
Changes in non-current assets and liabilities:
  Other assets.........................................    $    (5)        $    (2)        $     1
  Other liabilities....................................         43              41              16
                                                           -------         -------         -------
                                                           $    38         $    39         $    17
                                                           =======         =======         =======
Supplemental cash flow information:
  Income taxes paid....................................    $   117         $    57         $     7
  Interest paid........................................    $    17         $    10         $     5
</TABLE>
 
Non-cash investing and financing activities:
 
     During fiscal 1996, 1.19 million shares of Convertible Preferred Stock were
converted into 10 million shares of Common Stock. See Note 7 -- Preferred Stock.
Additionally, the Company issued Common Stock in conjunction with restricted
stock grants and for its matching contributions to the 401(k) plan. See Note
9 -- Employee Benefit Plans.
 
                                       49
<PAGE>   51
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 15 -- QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 
     The Company believes that the following information reflects all normal
recurring adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of the information for
the periods presented. The following tables contain selected unaudited
Consolidated Statement of Operations and stock price data for each quarter of
fiscal 1996 and 1995. All share and per share information has been retroactively
restated to reflect the two-for-one split of the Common Stock in October 1995.
See Note 8 -- Common Stock. See "Principles of Consolidation" in Note 1 for a
discussion regarding the Company's transition to a common reporting date in
fiscal 1995 and the impact of such transition on the Company's fourth quarter
results for fiscal 1995. The operating results for any quarter are not
necessarily indicative of results for any future period.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   FISCAL YEAR 1996
                                                      -------------------------------------------
                                                        4TH          3RD          2ND          1ST
                                                      QUARTER      QUARTER      QUARTER      QUARTER
                                                      -------      -------      -------      -------
<S>                                                   <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
                                                         (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
Net sales...........................................  $ 1,539     $   1,415     $  1,206     $  1,136
Gross margin........................................  $   278     $     290     $    263     $    236
Operating income....................................  $    94     $     104     $     91     $     88
Net income..........................................  $    70     $      75     $     65     $     62
Earnings per common share:
  Primary...........................................  $   .70     $     .75     $    .66     $    .55
  Fully diluted.....................................  $   .70     $     .75     $    .66     $    .53
Weighted average shares used to compute earnings per
  common share:
     Primary........................................     99.4         100.1         98.2         90.5
     Fully diluted..................................     99.8         101.0         99.2         97.5
Stock sales prices per share:
  High..............................................  $49 3/8     $47 13/16     $35 1/16     $27 7/16
  Low...............................................  $23         $31           $24  1/4     $19  3/4
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    FISCAL YEAR 1995
                                                       -------------------------------------------
                                                         4TH         3RD         2ND         1ST
                                                       QUARTER     QUARTER     QUARTER     QUARTER
                                                       -------     -------     -------     -------
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
                                                          (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
Net sales............................................  $ 1,033     $   884     $   791     $   767
Gross margin.........................................  $   217     $   181     $   170     $   170
Operating income.....................................  $    79     $    59     $    51     $    60
Net income...........................................  $    60     $    41     $    29     $    19
Earnings per common share:
  Primary............................................  $   .68     $   .47     $   .32     $   .21
  Fully diluted......................................  $   .63     $   .43     $   .31     $    --
Weighted average shares used to compute earnings per
  common share:
     Primary.........................................     85.7        84.2        81.2        80.6
     Fully diluted...................................     96.2        95.7        92.1          --
Stock sales prices per share:
  High...............................................  $23 7/8     $22         $15 3/8     $15 1/16
  Low................................................  $18 3/8     $13 3/4     $10 3/4     $ 9 9/16
</TABLE>
 
     Earnings per common share are computed independently for each of the
quarters presented. Therefore, the sum of the quarterly earnings per common
share may not equal the annual earnings per common share.
 
                                       50
<PAGE>   52
 
                                    PART III
 
     The information called for by Part III of Form 10-K (consisting of Item
10 -- Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant, Item 11 -- Executive
Compensation, Item 12 -- Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management and Item 13 -- Certain Relationships and Transactions) is
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive proxy statement relating
to the annual meeting of stockholders to be held in 1996, which definitive proxy
statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or before
May 28, 1996.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14 -- EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     The following financial statements are filed as a part of this Report under
"Item 8 -- Financial Statements and Supplementary Data":
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        PAGE
                                                                                        ----
<S>                                                                                     <C>
     Report of Independent Accountants................................................    25
     Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at January 28, 1996 and
       January 29, 1995...............................................................    26
     Consolidated Statement of Operations for the three fiscal years ended
       January 28, 1996...............................................................    27
     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three fiscal years ended
       January 28, 1996...............................................................    28
     Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the three fiscal years ended
      January 28, 1996................................................................    29
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.......................................    30
</TABLE>
 
FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
     The following financial statement schedule is filed as a part of this
Report under "Schedule II" immediately preceding the signature page: Schedule
II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the three fiscal years ended January
28, 1996. All other schedules called for by Form 10-K are omitted because they
are not applicable.
 
EXHIBITS
 
     The following exhibits are filed as a part of this Report, with each
exhibit that consists of or includes a management contract or compensatory plan
or arrangement being identified with an "*":
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT NO.                               DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                  <S>
        3.1          -- Certificate of Incorporation, dated October 21, 1987 and filed
                        October 22, 1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
                        Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                        July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.2          -- Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation, dated
                        May 6, 1988 and filed May 9, 1988 (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                        fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.3          -- Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation, dated
                        June 19, 1991 and filed June 21, 1991 (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                        fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
</TABLE>
 
                                       51
<PAGE>   53
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT NO.                               DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                  <S>
        3.4          -- Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation, dated
                        June 19, 1992 and filed July 10, 1992 (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                        fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.5          -- Certificate of Designation of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock,
                        dated August 24, 1993 and filed August 25, 1993 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 3.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                        10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No.
                        0-17017)
        3.6          -- Certificate of Correction Filed to Correct Certain Errors in the
                        Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation Filed in the
                        Office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 9, 1988, and in
                        the Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation Filed in
                        the Office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on July 10, 1992,
                        dated April 27, 1994 and filed May 5, 1994 (incorporated by reference
                        to Exhibit 3.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                        fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.7          -- Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, dated July
                        31, 1995 and filed August 3, 1995 (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 3.7 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
                        fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.8          -- Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating
                        Preferred Stock, dated November 29, 1995 and filed December 4, 1995
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly
                        Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995,
                        Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.9          -- Bylaws, dated October 22, 1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                        3.8 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                        quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
        3.10         -- Amendments to the Bylaws, adopted June 19, 1991 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 3.9 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                        10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No.
                        0-17071)
        3.11         -- Amendments to the Bylaws, adopted May 18, 1995 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 3.10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                        10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No.
                        0-17017)
        3.12         -- Amendments to Bylaws, adopted November 29, 1995 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                        10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File
                        No. 0-17017)
        3.13         -- Restated Bylaws, as adopted on November 29, 1995 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                        10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File
                        No. 0-17017)
        4.1          -- Rights Agreement, dated as of November 29, 1995 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
                        for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File No.
                        0-17017)
        4.2          -- Indenture, dated as of August 15, 1993, between the Company and The
                        First National Bank of Boston regarding the Company's 11% Senior
                        Notes Due August 15, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
                        to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No.
                        33-69680)
</TABLE>
 
                                       52
<PAGE>   54
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT NO.                               DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                  <S>
        4.3          -- Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 15,
                        1993, between the Company and the purchasers of the Company's 11%
                        Senior Notes Due August 15, 2000 (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4,
                        Registration No. 33-69680)
       10.1*         -- Dell Computer Corporation 1986 Incentive Stock Option Plan, as
                        amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4c to the Company's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-24621)
       10.2*         -- Dell Computer Corporation 1987 Incentive Stock Option Plan, as
                        amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4d to the Company's
                        Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-24621)
       10.3*         -- Dell Computer Corporation 1987 Non-qualified Stock Option Plan, as
                        amended, including the UK Scheme (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 4e to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
                        Registration No. 33-24621)
       10.4*         -- Dell Computer Corporation 1989 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
                        restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31,
                        1993, Commission File No. 0-17017)
       10.5*         -- Dell Computer Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-4, Registration No. 33-69680)
       10.6*         -- Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
                        to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
                        Registration No. 33-54577)
       10.7*         -- First Amendment to Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan, dated as
                        of July 21, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
                        Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                        July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17071)
       10.8*+        -- Second Amendment to Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan, dated
                        as of November 29, 1995
       10.9*         -- Dell Computer Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
                        for the fiscal year ended February 3, 1991, Commission File No.
                        0-17017)
       10.10*+       -- Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, adopted on August 25, 1995
       10.11*+       -- Executive Incentive Bonus Plan, adopted March 1, 1995
       10.12         -- Committed Credit Line Agreement, dated as of June 8, 1995, between
                        NationsBank of Texas, N.A. and the Company and certain of its
                        subsidiaries, along with schedule identifying substantially identical
                        agreements and material differences between such other agreements and
                        the agreement filed (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
                        Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended
                        July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
       10.13         -- Supplement to Schedule of Similar Agreements, listing additional
                        agreements substantially identical to the Committed Credit Line
                        Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
                        Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995 (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
                        10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File
                        No. 0-17017)
</TABLE>
 
                                       53
<PAGE>   55
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT NO.                               DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                  <S>
       10.14*        -- Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and certain of its
                        officers, directors and key employees (incorporated by reference to
                        Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1,
                        Registration No. 33-21823)
       10.15         -- Lease Agreement, dated January 6, 1989, for Building 12 in Braker
                        Center (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Company's
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27,
                        1989, Commission File No. 0-17017)
       10.16         -- Two Amendments to Lease Agreement for Building 12 in Braker Center
                        (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company's Annual
                        Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993,
                        Commission File No. 0-17017)
       10.17*        -- Agreement, dated May 12, 1988, between the Company and Michael S.
                        Dell, along with the Employment Agreement, dated May 3, 1984, between
                        Michael S. Dell and the Company's predecessor (incorporated by
                        reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's Registration Statement on
                        Form S-1, Registration No. 33-38991)
       10.18+        -- Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995,
                        between Dell Marketing L.P. (as Seller) and Dell Receivables L.P. (as
                        Purchaser)
       10.19+        -- Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995,
                        between Dell Direct Sales L.P. (as Seller) and Dell Receivables L.P.
                        (as Purchaser)
       10.20+        -- Subordinated Note, dated as of November 30, 1995, payable to Dell
                        Marketing L.P. issued by Dell Receivables L.P.
       10.21+        -- Subordinated Note, dated as of November 30, 1995, payable to Dell
                        Direct Sales L.P. issued by Dell Receivables L.P.
       10.22+        -- Pooling and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995, among
                        Dell Receivables L.P. (as Transferor), Dell USA L.P. (as Servicer)
                        and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association (as Trustee)
       10.23+        -- Series 1995-1 Supplement, dated as of November 21, 1995, to the
                        Pooling and Servicing Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.22 to this Report
       10.24+        -- Certificate Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 30, 1995, among
                        Dell Receivables L.P. (as Seller), Corporate Receivables Corporation
                        (as Purchaser), the financial institutions named from time to time
                        therein (as Liquidity Providers), Citibank North America, Inc. (as
                        Program Agent) and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association (as
                        Trustee)
       10.25+        -- Parent Undertaking Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995, executed
                        by the Company
       10.26+        -- Cross-Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995, among Dell
                        Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. and Dell USA L.P.
       10.27*        -- Severance Agreement, dated April 28, 1995, between the Company and L.
                        Scott Flaig (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's
                        Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30,
                        1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
       10.28*        -- Severance Agreement, dated June 15, 1995, between the Company and
                        Thomas L. Thomas (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
                        Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                        July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
</TABLE>
 
                                       54
<PAGE>   56
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    EXHIBIT NO.                               DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT
- -------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                  <S>
       11+           -- Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings
       21+           -- Subsidiaries of the Company
       23+           -- Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP
       27+           -- Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
 
- ---------------
 
* Identifies Exhibit that consists of or includes a management contract or
  compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
+ Filed herewith.
 
REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     On November 30, 1995, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, dated
November 29, 1995, reporting under Item 5 the adoption by the Board of Directors
of a Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan. A copy of the Rights Agreement, dated
November 29, 1995, relating to such Preferred Share Purchase Rights Plan is
filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Report. Such Current Report did not include any
financial statements.
 
                                       55
<PAGE>   57
 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    BALANCE AT    CHARGED TO    WRITE-OFFS    BALANCE AT
                                                    BEGINNING      BAD DEBT     CHARGED TO      END OF
  FISCAL YEAR              DESCRIPTION              OF PERIOD      EXPENSE      ALLOWANCE       PERIOD
- ---------------  --------------------------------   ----------    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                                                       (IN MILLIONS)
<S>              <C>                                <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
  1996.........  Allowance for doubtful accounts       $ 26          $ 13          $ 10          $ 29
  1995.........  Allowance for doubtful accounts       $ 26          $  8          $  8          $ 26
  1994.........  Allowance for doubtful accounts       $ 14          $ 13          $  1          $ 26
</TABLE>
 
                                       56
<PAGE>   58
 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                            DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
 
Date: March 25, 1996                        By:      MICHAEL S. DELL
                                               --------------------------------
                                                     Michael S. Dell, 
                                                   Chairman of the Board
                                                 and Chief Executive Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                     NAME                                    TITLE                   DATE
                     ----                                    -----                   ----
<C>                                               <S>                          <C>
                MICHAEL S. DELL                  Chairman of the Board and    March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------      Chief Executive Officer
                Michael S. Dell                     (principal executive
                                                    officer)

                DONALD J. CARTY                  Director                     March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------                    
                Donald J. Carty

            PAUL O. HIRSCHBIEL, JR.              Director                     March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------
            Paul O. Hirschbiel, Jr.

               MICHAEL H. JORDAN                  Director                    March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------
               Michael H. Jordan

               GEORGE KOZMETSKY
- ----------------------------------------------
               George Kozmetsky                   Director                    March 25, 1996

             THOMAS W. LUCE, III                  Director                    March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------             
             Thomas W. Luce, III

                KLAUS S. LUFT                    Director                     March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------
                Klaus S. Luft

              CLAUDINE B. MALONE                 Director                     March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------
              Claudine B. Malone

              MICHAEL A. MILES                   Director                     March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------
              Michael A. Miles

              THOMAS J. MEREDITH                 Senior Vice President --     March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------      Finance and Information
              Thomas J. Meredith                    Systems and Chief
                                                    Financial Officer
                                                    (principal financial
                                                    officer)

          CATHERINE P. THOMPSON                  Vice President, Corporate    March 25, 1996
- ----------------------------------------------      Controller (principal
          Catherine P. Thompson                     accounting officer)

</TABLE>
 
                                       57
<PAGE>   59
 
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 
   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                      
 EXHIBIT                                                                                              
    NO.                             DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT                                            
- ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------                   
<C>        <S>                                                                                        
    3.1    -- Certificate of Incorporation, dated October 21, 1987 and filed
              October 22, 1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
              July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.2    -- Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation, dated
              May 6, 1988 and filed May 9, 1988 (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.3    -- Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation, dated
              June 19, 1991 and filed June 21, 1991 (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.4    -- Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation, dated
              June 19, 1992 and filed July 10, 1992 (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 3.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.5    -- Certificate of Designation of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock,
              dated August 24, 1993 and filed August 25, 1993 (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.5 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No.
              0-17017)
    3.6    -- Certificate of Correction Filed to Correct Certain Errors in the
              Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation Filed in the
              Office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on May 9, 1988, and in
              the Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation Filed in
              the Office of the Secretary of State of Delaware on July 10, 1992,
              dated April 27, 1994 and filed May 5, 1994 (incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 3.6 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.7    -- Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, dated July
              31, 1995 and filed August 3, 1995 (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 3.7 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
              fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.8    -- Certificate of Designations of Series A Junior Participating
              Preferred Stock, dated November 29, 1995 and filed December 4, 1995
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Quarterly
              Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995,
              Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.9    -- Bylaws, dated October 22, 1987 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              3.8 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
              quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
    3.10   -- Amendments to the Bylaws, adopted June 19, 1991 (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.9 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No.
              0-17071)
</TABLE>
    

<PAGE>   60
   
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               
 EXHIBIT                                                                                       
   NO.                              DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT                                     
- ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------            
<C>        <S>                                                                                 
    3.11   -- Amendments to the Bylaws, adopted May 18, 1995 (incorporated by                  
              reference to Exhibit 3.10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995, Commission File No.
              0-17017)
    3.12   -- Amendments to Bylaws, adopted November 29, 1995 (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File
              No. 0-17017)
    3.13   -- Restated Bylaws, as adopted on November 29, 1995 (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File
              No. 0-17017)
    4.1    -- Rights Agreement, dated as of November 29, 1995 (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
              for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File No.
              0-17017)
    4.2    -- Indenture, dated as of August 15, 1993, between the Company and The
              First National Bank of Boston regarding the Company's 11% Senior
              Notes Due August 15, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1
              to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No.
              33-69680)
    4.3    -- Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 15, 1993,
              between the Company and the purchasers of the Company's 11% Senior
              Notes Due August 15, 2000 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2
              to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No.
              33-69680)
   10.1*   -- Dell Computer Corporation 1986 Incentive Stock Option Plan, as
              amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4c to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-24621)
   10.2*   -- Dell Computer Corporation 1987 Incentive Stock Option Plan, as
              amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4d to the Company's
              Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-24621)
   10.3*   -- Dell Computer Corporation 1987 Non-qualified Stock Option Plan, as
              amended, including the UK Scheme (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 4e to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
              Registration No. 33-24621)
   10.4*   -- Dell Computer Corporation 1989 Stock Option Plan, as amended and
              restated (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31,
              1993, Commission File No. 0-17017)
   10.5*   -- Dell Computer Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan, (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-4, Registration No. 33-69680)
   10.6*   -- Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference
              to Exhibit 4.6 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-8,
              Registration No. 33-54577)
   10.7*   -- First Amendment to Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan, dated as
              of July 21, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
              July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17071)
</TABLE>
    

<PAGE>   61
   
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               
 EXHIBIT                                                                                       
   NO.                              DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT                                     
- ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------            
<C>        <S>                                                                                 
   10.8*+  -- Second Amendment to Dell Computer Corporation Incentive Plan, dated
              as of November 29, 1995
   10.9*   -- Dell Computer Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
              for the fiscal year ended February 3, 1991, Commission File No.
              0-17017)
   10.10*+ -- Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, adopted on August 25, 1995
   10.11*+ -- Executive Incentive Bonus Plan, adopted March 1, 1995
   10.12   -- Committed Credit Line Agreement, dated as of June 8, 1995, between
              NationsBank of Texas, N.A. and the Company and certain of its
              subsidiaries, along with schedule identifying substantially identical
              agreements and material differences between such other agreements and
              the agreement filed (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal year ended
              July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
</TABLE>
    

<PAGE>   62
   
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               
 EXHIBIT                                                                                       
   NO.                              DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT                                     
- ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------            
<C>        <S>                                                                                 
   10.13   -- Supplement to Schedule of Similar Agreements, listing additional
              agreements substantially identical to the Committed Credit Line
              Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Quarterly Report on
              Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 30, 1995 (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 29, 1995, Commission File
              No. 0-17017)
   10.14*  -- Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and certain of its
              officers, directors and key employees (incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.23 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1,
              Registration No. 33-21823)
   10.15   -- Lease Agreement, dated January 6, 1989, for Building 12 in Braker
              Center (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Company's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 27,
              1989, Commission File No. 0-17017)
   10.16   -- Two Amendments to Lease Agreement for Building 12 in Braker Center
              (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993,
              Commission File No. 0-17017)
   10.17*  -- Agreement, dated May 12, 1988, between the Company and Michael S.
              Dell, along with the Employment Agreement, dated May 3, 1984, between
              Michael S. Dell and the Company's predecessor (incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.25 to the Company's Registration Statement on
              Form S-1, Registration No. 33-38991)
   10.18+  -- Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995,
              between Dell Marketing L.P. (as Seller) and Dell Receivables L.P. (as
              Purchaser)
   10.19+  -- Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995,
              between Dell Direct Sales L.P. (as Seller) and Dell Receivables L.P.
              (as Purchaser)
   10.20+  -- Subordinated Note, dated as of November 30, 1995, payable to Dell
              Marketing L.P. issued by Dell Receivables L.P.
   10.21+  -- Subordinated Note, dated as of November 30, 1995, payable to Dell
              Direct Sales L.P. issued by Dell Receivables L.P.
   10.22+  -- Pooling and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995, among
              Dell Receivables L.P. (as Transferor), Dell USA L.P. (as Servicer)
              and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association (as Trustee)
   10.23+  -- Series 1995-1 Supplement, dated as of November 21, 1995, to the
              Pooling and Servicing Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.22 to this Report
   10.24+  -- Certificate Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 21, 1995, among
              Dell Receivables L.P. (as Seller), Corporate Receivables Corporation
              (as Purchaser), the financial institutions named from time to time
              therein (as Liquidity Providers), Citibank North America, Inc. (as
              Program Agent) and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association (as
              Trustee)
</TABLE>
    

<PAGE>   63
   
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                               
 EXHIBIT                                                                                       
   NO.                              DESCRIPTION OF EXHIBIT                                     
- ---------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------            
<C>        <S>                                                                                 
   10.25+  -- Parent Undertaking Agreement, dated as of November 30, 1995, executed
              by the Company
   10.26+  -- Cross-Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 30, 1995, among Dell
              Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. and Dell USA L.P.
   10.27*  -- Severance Agreement, dated April 28, 1995, between the Company and L.
              Scott Flaig (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the Company's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30,
              1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
   10.28*  -- Severance Agreement, dated June 15, 1995, between the Company and
              Thomas L. Thomas (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
              Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
              July 30, 1995, Commission File No. 0-17017)
   11+     -- Statement re Computation of Per Share Earnings
   21+     -- Subsidiaries of the Company
   23+     -- Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP
   27+     -- Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
    
 
- ---------------
 
* Identifies Exhibit that consists of or includes a management contract or
  compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
+ Filed herewith.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>SECOND AMENDMENT TO DELL COMPUTER INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                EXHIBIT 10.8

                                SECOND AMENDMENT

                                       TO

                            DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION

                                 INCENTIVE PLAN


   
     Dell Computer Corporation (the "Company"), a corporation organized and
existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of
Delaware (the "DGCL"), hereby adopts an amendment to the Dell Computer
Corporation Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan"), as specified below.
    

                                    RECITALS

   
     The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), acting at a meeting
duly called and held on November 29, 1995 in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the DGCL and the Company's Bylaws, did duly adopt resolutions (1)
approving the amendment to the Incentive Plan described herein and (2)
authorizing the officers of the Company to take such actions as they consider
necessary, appropriate or desirable to effectuate the purposes thereof.
    

     Now, therefore, the Incentive Plan is hereby amended as follows:

     1.     Paragraph 1.6 of the Plan is deleted in its entirety and replaced
with the following:

          1.6  "Change in Control" means:

   
               (a)    The acquisition by a Person of beneficial ownership
     (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of
     20% or more of either (1) the then outstanding shares of Stock or  (2) the
     combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the
     Corporation; provided, however, that for purposes of this subparagraph (a),
     the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i)
     any acquisition directly from the  Corporation, (ii) any acquisition by the
     Corporation, (iii) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related
     trust) sponsored or maintained by the Corporation  or any corporation
     controlled by the Corporation, (iv) any acquisition by Mr. Michael S. Dell,
     his Affiliates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange
     Act) or Associates (as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under the Exchange
     Act), his heirs or any trust or foundation to which he has transferred or
     may transfer Stock (collectively, "Michael Dell") or (v) any acquisition by
     any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (1),
     (2) and (3) of subparagraph (c) of this Paragraph; or

    

<PAGE>   2
               (b)    Individuals who constitute the Incumbent Board cease for
     any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or

               (c)    Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of a
     reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all
     or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or the acquisition of
     assets of another corporation (a "Business Combination"), in each case,
     unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all
     of the Persons who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the
     outstanding Stock and outstanding Voting Securities of the Corporation
     immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly
     or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares
     of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding
     voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors,
     as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business
     Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result
     of such transaction owns the Corporation or all or substantially all of the
     Corporation's assets either directly or through one or more Subsidiaries)
     in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior
     to such Business Combination, of the outstanding Stock and outstanding
     Voting Securities, as the case may be, (2) no Person (excluding any
     employee benefit Plan (or related trust) of the Corporation, such
     corporation resulting from such Business Combination and Michael Dell)
     beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively,
     the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting
     from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then
     outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that
     such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (3) at least a
     majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation
     resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent
     Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the
     action of the Board of Directors, providing for such Business Combination;
     or

               (d)    Approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of a
     complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation.

     2.    Paragraph 1.23 of the Plan is deleted and replaced in its entirety 
with the following:

          1.23    "Incumbent Board" means the individuals who, as of the
     Effective Date, constitute the Board of Directors; provided, however, that
     any individual becoming a director subsequent to such date whose election,
     or nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, was approved
     by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising





                                       2
<PAGE>   3
     the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a
     member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any
     such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as result of an
     actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or
     removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies
     or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.

     3.    Except as described in Paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the terms,
conditions and provisions of the Incentive Plan shall remain in full force and
effect and shall be unaffected by this amendment.

     4.    This amendment, and the changes to the provisions of the Incentive
Plan effected hereby, shall be effective as of November 29, 1995.

     In witness whereof, the Company, acting by and through its duly authorized
officer, has executed this instrument to be effective as of the date specified
in Paragraph 4 above.

                                      DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION

                                      By:     THOMAS B. GREEN     
                                          ------------------------
                                          Thomas B. Green,
                                          General Counsel and Secretary

Attest:

      THOMAS H. WELCH, JR.
- -------------------------------
Thomas H. Welch, Jr.,
Assistant Secretary





                                       3
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.10
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.10
    

                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION

                  AMENDMENT TO THE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

RESOLVED, that the Board hereby amends Section 3.2 of the Plan effective 
January 1, 1996, to provide for a 100% match of Member's Deferral Account, not 
to exceed the maximum matched Employer Salary Reduction Contribution under the 
Dell Computer Corporation 401(k) Plan less the maximum limit allowed under the 
Internal Revenue Code 402(g)(1).

RESOLVED, that the Board hereby amends the vesting schedule of the Plan 
effective January 1, 1996, to mirror the vesting schedule of the Dell Computer 
Corporation 401(k) Plan.

RESOLVED, that the Board hereby amends Section 2 of the Plan effective January 
1, 1996, to provide for the inclusion of Directors as eligible Members in the 
Plan.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.11
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.11
    

   
                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
    

   
                         EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE BONUS PLAN
    

   
                              SUMMARY DESCRIPTION
    

   
         On March 1, 1995, the Board of Directors of Dell Computer Corporation
(the "Company") unanimously approved the adoption of the Executive Incentive
Bonus Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan was approved by the Company's stockholders at
the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on July 21, 1995. Set forth
below is a description of the terms of the plan.
    

   
PURPOSE
    

   
         The purpose of the Plan is to unite strategic objectives and executive
staff performance, provide significant cash rewards for continuing profitable
growth and motivate short-term performance for each of the fiscal years during
the term of the Plan. Key strategic objectives include (a) product leadership,
(b) productivity, cost reduction and quality, (c) attracting, developing and
retaining exceptional people, (d) improving infrastructure and systems and (e)
global expansion.
    

   
ADMINISTRATION
    

   
         The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors (the "Committee"), which shall consist of two or more
members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of the Company and who
otherwise qualify as "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m)
of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
    

   
ELIGIBILITY
    

   
         All corporate vice presidents who are members of the Company's
executive staff are eligible to participate in the Plan. Plan participants are
chosen solely at the discretion of the Committee.
    

   
TARGET BONUS
    

   
         Promptly after the beginning of each fiscal year, the Committee
establishes a target bonus opportunity for each participant based on a
percentage of the participant's base salary and level of responsibility. The
percentage of the target bonus actually paid is based on the extent to which
corporate and key strategic objectives are achieved.  Corporate objectives may
include any or all of the following: profit before tax, profit after tax,
return on invested capital, return on equity, return on assets, net income and
revenues. With respect to key strategic objectives, the Committee has
    

<PAGE>   2
   
determined that such information is confidential business information,
disclosure of which would adversely affect the Company.
    

   
         Plan payments are calculated for each participant at the end of the
fiscal year based on the achievement of annual corporate and key strategic
objectives. The amount earned is paid in cash as soon as is practicable
following the end of the Company's fiscal year to which the bonus pertains,
provided that at the discretion of the Committee, a participant may, subject to
such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, elect to defer
payment of all or any part of any bonus by complying with such procedures as
the Committee may prescribe.
    

   
         The Committee must certify in writing that the performance criteria
have been met prior to any payments under the Plan. Employees are not entitled
to any bonus award under the Plan, however, if minimum corporate objectives
are not achieved.
    

   
         The amount to be paid to each participant under the Plan will depend
on the factors set forth above. However, the maximum bonus that any one
individual may receive under the Plan in any one fiscal year is $2 million, and
in no event more than 250% of the individual's target bonus amount. The
committee may reduce (but not increase) a participant's bonus as its sole
discretion. Generally, an executive must be actively employed by the Company or
a subsidiary of the Company and on the payroll on the date the award is paid to
receive the award. Certain pro rata awards may be made if termination of
employment results from retirement, permanent disability or death.
    

   
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
    

   
         The Committee may terminate, suspend or amend the Plan, in whole or in
part, from time to time, including to adopt amendments deemed necessary or
desirable to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any
inconsistency in the Plan or in any award granted under the Plan so long as
stockholder approval required by Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code
has been obtained. No amendment, termination or modification may adversely
affect outstanding awards under the Plan, in any manner, without the consent of
the affected participants. The Committee must determine that an amendment or
modification  is in the best interests of all persons to whom awards have
previously been granted and may not adopt an amendment or modification that
would result in an increase in the amount of compensation payable under the
Plan.
    




                                       2
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.18
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                EXHIBIT 10.18
    

                                                                  EXECUTION COPY



                         RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT

                                     between

                         DELL MARKETING L.P., as Seller

                                       and

                       DELL RECEIVABLES L.P., as Purchaser

                          Dated as of November 21, 1995
<PAGE>   2
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
<S>               <C>                                                       <C>
                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.01.     Definitions.............................................    2
SECTION 1.02.     Other Definitional Provisions...........................    2
SECTION 1.03.     Computation of Time Periods.............................    3
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE II                                  
                                                                               
                        PURCHASE AND SALE OF RECEIVABLES                       
                                                                               
SECTION 2.01.     Purchase and Sale of Receivables........................    4
SECTION 2.02.     Payment of Purchase Price...............................    4
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE III                                 
                                                                               
                    CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND PURCHASES                  
                                                                               
SECTION 3.01.     Transfer Date...........................................    5
SECTION 3.02.     Conditions Precedent to All Purchases...................    6
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE IV                                  
                                                                               
                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES                        
                                                                               
SECTION 4.01.     Representations and Warranties of the Seller............    8
SECTION 4.02.     Representations and Warranties of the Purchaser.........   11
SECTION 4.03.     Obligations Unaffected..................................   12
                                                                               
                                    ARTICLE V                                  
                                                                               
                                    COVENANTS                                  
                                                                               
SECTION 5.01.     Affirmative Covenants of the Seller.....................   14
SECTION 5.02.     Reporting Requirements of the Seller....................   17
SECTION 5.03.     Negative Covenants of the Seller........................   18
SECTION 5.04.     Affirmative Mutual Covenant.............................   19
SECTION 5.05.     Grant of Security Interest..............................   19
</TABLE>

                                        i
<PAGE>   3
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
<S>               <C>                                                       <C>
                                   ARTICLE VI

                              EVENTS OF TERMINATION

SECTION 6.01.     Termination.............................................   21
                                                                            
                                   ARTICLE VII                              
                                                                            
                                 INDEMNIFICATION                            
                                                                            
SECTION 7.01.     Indemnification.........................................   23
                                                                            
                                  ARTICLE VIII                              
                                                                            
                                  MISCELLANEOUS                             
                                                                            
SECTION 8.01.     Further Assurances......................................   25
SECTION 8.02.     Payments................................................   25
SECTION 8.03.     Costs and Expenses......................................   25
SECTION 8.04.     Binding Effect; Assignability...........................   26
SECTION 8.05.     Governing Law, Jurisdiction, Consent to                   
                  Service of Process......................................   27
SECTION 8.06.     No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies..........................   27
SECTION 8.07.     Amendments and Waivers..................................   27
SECTION 8.08.     Severability............................................   28
SECTION 8.09.     Notices.................................................   28
SECTION 8.10.     Counterparts............................................   28
SECTION 8.11.     Construction of Agreement as Security                      
                  Agreement...............................................   28
SECTION 8.12.     Termination.............................................   28
SECTION 8.13.     Third Party Beneficiary.................................   29
SECTION 8.14.     The Seller's Obligations................................   29
</TABLE>

                                       ii
<PAGE>   4
         RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 21, 1995, by and
between Dell Marketing L.P., a Texas limited partnership (in its capacity as
seller hereunder, the "Seller") and Dell Receivables L.P., a Texas limited
partnership (the "Purchaser").

         WHEREAS, the Seller desires to sell to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser
desires to buy from the Seller, on the date hereof and from time to time
hereafter, all of the Seller's right, title and interest in, to and under the
Receivables existing on the date hereof or hereafter created; and

         WHEREAS, all of the partnership interests in both the Seller and the
Purchaser are held indirectly by Dell Computer Corporation ("Dell") and all of
the shares of the Purchaser are owned indirectly by Dell; and

         WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
dated of even date herewith (the "Pooling and Servicing Agreement"), among the
Purchaser, Dell USA L.P. (the "Servicer") and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), the Purchaser has agreed to transfer to
the Trust created pursuant to the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, for the
benefit of the Certificateholders referred to therein, all of its right, title
and interest in, to and under the Receivables;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
<PAGE>   5
                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

         SECTION 1.01. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein but not
otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement. In addition, the term "Agreement" shall mean this
Receivables Purchase Agreement, as the same may from time to time be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified. The following capitalized terms shall have
the following meanings:

         "Early Termination" shall have the meaning specified in Section 6.01.

         "Effective Period" shall mean the period beginning on the Transfer Date
and terminating on (i) the earliest of (a) the close of business on the Business
Day on which a Termination Event occurs, (b) the close of business on the
Business Day immediately preceding the day on which any Early Amortization Event
occurs and (c) the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding
the day on which the Amortization Period for the last outstanding Series begins
or (ii) such later date as is agreed to by the Seller and the Purchaser.

         "Purchase Date" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.02.

         "Purchase Percentage" shall mean initially 98%; provided, however, that
the Purchase Percentage may change from time to time, on a basis consistent with
that used to establish the initial Purchase Percentage, to reflect historic loss
experience of the Seller's accounts receivable portfolio and prevailing interest
rates, as agreed upon by the Seller and the Purchaser.

         "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.02.

         "Termination Event" shall have the meaning specified in Section 6.01.

         "Transfer Date" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.01.

         SECTION 1.02. Other Definitional Provisions. (a) All terms defined in
this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or
other document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined
therein.

         (b) As used herein and in any certificate or other document made or
delivered pursuant hereto, accounting terms not defined in this Agreement, and
accounting terms partly defined in this Agreement to the extent not completely
defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them under generally
accepted


                                        2
<PAGE>   6
accounting principles in effect from time to time. To the extent that the
definitions of accounting terms herein are inconsistent with the meanings of
such terms under generally accepted accounting principles, the definitions
contained herein shall control.

         (c) The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar
import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and
not to any particular provision of this Agreement; and Section, Schedule and
Exhibit references contained in this Agreement are references to Sections,
Schedules and Exhibits in or to this Agreement unless otherwise specified; and
the term "including" shall mean "including without limitation".

         SECTION 1.03. Computation of Time Periods. Unless otherwise stated in
this Agreement, in the computation of a period of time from a specified date to
a later specified date, the word "from" shall mean "from and including" and the
words "to" and "until" shall mean "to but excluding".



                                        3
<PAGE>   7
                                   ARTICLE II

                        PURCHASE AND SALE OF RECEIVABLES

         SECTION 2.01. Purchase and Sale of Receivables. Subject to the terms
and conditions of this Agreement, the Seller agrees to sell to the Purchaser,
and the Purchaser agrees to purchase from the Seller, during the Effective
Period, all right, title and interest of the Seller in, to and under all
Receivables now existing or hereafter created, including, without limitation,
all monies due and to become due thereunder, and all amounts received with
respect thereto and all proceeds thereof.

         SECTION 2.02. Payment of Purchase Price. (a) On the Transfer Date, the
Seller shall sell to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser shall purchase from the
Seller, all of the Seller's right, title and interest in, to and under all
Receivables existing at the close of business on the Business Day preceding the
Transfer Date for a payment consisting of $182,726,553.45 multiplied by the
Purchase Percentage.

         (b) On each Business Day during the Effective Period, the Seller shall
determine the Receivables arising over the course of the preceding Business Day,
which Receivables shall be deemed available for purchase by the Purchaser on
such day (each, a "Purchase Date"). To the extent that any sale of Receivables
is not reflected in the Daily Report, such Receivables will nevertheless be
deemed sold to the Purchaser in every respect and all of the Seller's rights,
title and interest in, to and under such Receivables will be deemed to have been
sold to the Purchaser.

         (c) The purchase price payable to the Seller for the Receivables to be
purchased on any Purchase Date shall be an amount equal to the product of (i)
the aggregate Outstanding Balance of all Receivables determined pursuant to
paragraph (b) above and (ii) the Purchase Percentage (such amount, the "Purchase
Price").

         (d) The Purchase Price shall be paid to the Seller in immediately
available funds to the extent of funds available to the Purchaser. The excess,
if any, of the Purchase Price over the payment therefor set forth in clause (a)
or (c) above, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a loan by the Seller to
the Purchaser (a "Subordinated Loan"), evidenced by the Subordinated Note of the
Purchaser substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.


                                        4
<PAGE>   8
                                   ARTICLE III

                    CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND PURCHASES

         SECTION 3.01. Transfer Date. This Agreement is effective on November
21, 1995. No purchase hereunder shall occur until November 30, 1995 or such
other date agreed upon by the parties in writing (the "Transfer Date") on or
before which the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied:

         (a) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser file-stamped
copies of the financing statements relating to the Receivables, naming the
Seller as seller/debtor, the Purchaser as purchaser/secured party, or other
similar instruments or documents, as may be necessary or, in the opinion of the
Purchaser, desirable under the UCC of any appropriate jurisdiction or other
applicable law to perfect the Purchaser's ownership of and first priority
security interest in the Receivables, that were duly filed on or prior to the
Transfer Date with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas or other
appropriate official.

         (b) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a copy of the
limited partnership agreement of the Seller, certified by the secretary or an
assistant secretary of the general partner of the Seller as of a recent date.

         (c) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a certificate of
the Secretary of State of the State of Texas as to the documents relating to the
Seller which are on file in the office of such Secretary of State.

         (d) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a certificate of
the secretary or an assistant secretary of the general partner of the Seller,
dated the Transfer Date, certifying (i) that attached thereto is a true and
complete copy of resolutions adopted by the board of directors of the general
partner of the Seller authorizing the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement and any other documents required or contemplated
hereunder, (ii) that the limited partnership agreement of the Seller has not
been amended since the date of the certified copy furnished pursuant to clause
(b) above and (iii) the names and true signatures of the officers of the general
partner of the Seller authorized to execute this Agreement, the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement and any other documents contemplated hereunder, and
appropriately evidencing the incumbency of such secretary or assistant
secretary.

         (e) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser certified copies
of Requests for Information or Copies (Form UCC- 11) (or a similar search report
certified by a party acceptable to the Purchaser), dated a date reasonably near
to the date of such Transfer Date, listing all effective financing statements
(including those referred to in Section 3.01(a) which name the



                                        5
<PAGE>   9
Seller (under its present name and any previous name) as debtor and which are
filed in the jurisdictions in which filings were made pursuant to Section
3.01(a), together with copies of such financing statements (none of which
(except those filed pursuant to Section 3.01(a) shall cover any property which
may be Receivables or Collections).

         (f) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser copies of proper
Financing Statements (Form UCC-3), if any, necessary to release all security
interests and other rights of any Person in the Receivables previously granted
by the Seller.

         (g) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a Dell Collection
Account Letter substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement, in respect of each Dell Collection Account maintained by
the Servicer, duly acknowledged by the bank holding such Dell Collection
Account.

         (h) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser favorable opinions
of Baker & Botts, L.L.P., counsel for the Seller, and of Thomas B. Green,
General Counsel of the Seller, each in form and substance reasonably acceptable
to the Purchaser.

         (i) There shall have been delivered to the Seller a certificate of the
secretary or assistant secretary of the general partner of the Purchaser, dated
the Transfer Date, certifying (i) that attached thereto is a true and complete
copy of resolutions adopted by the board of directors of the general partner of
the Purchaser authorizing the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and
the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and any other
documents required or contemplated hereunder and (ii) the names and true
signatures of the officers of the general partner of the Purchaser authorized to
execute this Agreement and any other documents contemplated hereunder, and
appropriately evidencing the incumbency of such secretary or assistant
secretary.

         (j) The Pooling and Servicing Agreement and all documentation to be
delivered in connection therewith shall have been executed and delivered and all
conditions thereto shall have been satisfied.

         (k) The Cross-Guarantee Agreement shall have been executed and
delivered and shall be in full force and effect.

         (l) All legal matters incident to the execution and delivery of this
Agreement and to the purchases by the Purchaser of the Receivables from the
Seller shall be satisfactory to counsel for the Purchaser.

         SECTION 3.02. Conditions Precedent to All Purchases. The obligation of
the Purchaser to pay the Purchase Price with respect to any Receivables on any
Purchase Date is subject to the following conditions precedent:



                                        6
<PAGE>   10
         (a) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Seller shall have delivered
to the Purchaser the accounts receivable trial balance of the Originators (which
if in magnetic tape or diskette format shall be compatible with the Purchaser's,
or, if applicable, the Servicer's, computer equipment);

         (b) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Servicer shall have
delivered to the Purchaser, in form and substance satisfactory to the Purchaser,
a completed Determination Date Certificate, together with a listing by Obligor
of all Receivables subject to such purchase, for the most recently ended
reporting period for which information is required pursuant to Section 3.05(b)
of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement and containing such additional
information as may be reasonably requested by the Purchaser;

         (c) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Seller shall have marked its
master data processing records and, at the request of the Purchaser, each
Contract (other than any invoice sent to the Obligor under such Contract) giving
rise to Receivables and all other relevant records evidencing the Receivables
which are the subject of such purchase with a legend, acceptable to the
Purchaser, stating that such Receivables, and Collections with respect thereto
and other proceeds thereof, have been sold in accordance with this Agreement;

         (d) On such Purchase Date, the following statements shall be true (and
the Seller, by accepting the amount of such purchase, shall be deemed to certify
that):

         (i)  The Seller's representations and warranties contained in Section
     4.01 are correct on and as of such day as though made on and as of such
     date; and

         (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such
     purchase, which constitutes a Termination Event or would constitute a
     Termination Event but for the requirement that notice be given or time
     elapse or both;

         (e) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Purchaser shall have
received such other approvals, opinions or documents as the Purchaser may
reasonably request; and

         (f) On such Purchase Date the Seller shall have complied with all of
its covenants hereunder and shall have fulfilled in all material respects all of
its obligations hereunder.

         The acceptance by the Seller of any payment for any Receivables shall
be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Seller as to the matters
set forth in this Section 3.02.



                                        7
<PAGE>   11
                                   ARTICLE IV

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

         SECTION 4.01. Representations and Warranties of the Seller. The Seller
represents and warrants to the Purchaser as of the Transfer Date and each
Purchase Date that:

         (a) Organization. The Seller is a limited partnership duly organized
and validly existing under the laws of the State of Texas and has full power,
authority and legal right to own its properties and conduct its business, as
presently owned or conducted and as is proposed to be conducted under this
Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, and to execute, deliver and perform
its obligations under this Agreement and the Cross- Guarantee Agreement.

         (b) Due Qualification. The Seller is duly qualified to do business (or
is exempt from such requirement), and has obtained all necessary licenses or
approvals, in each jurisdiction in which failure to so qualify or to obtain such
licenses or approvals would have a material adverse effect on the Seller's
ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee
Agreement.

         (c) Due Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance of this
Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement by the Seller, and the consummation
by the Seller of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and by the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement, have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary action on the part of the Seller and this Agreement and the Cross-
Guarantee Agreement and the other agreements and instruments executed or to be
executed in connection herewith have been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of the Seller.

         (d) No Conflict. The Seller's execution and delivery of this Agreement
and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, performance of the transactions contemplated
hereby and thereby, and fulfillment of the terms hereof and thereof applicable
to the Seller, do not contravene the Seller's limited partnership agreement,
conflict with or violate any Requirements of Law applicable to the Seller,
violate any provision of, or require any filing, registration, consent or
approval under, any Requirement of Law presently in effect having applicability
to the Seller, except for such filings, registrations, consents or approvals as
have already been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, conflict
with, result in any breach of any of the material terms and provisions of, or
constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a default under,
any indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or other instrument
to which the Seller is a party or by which it or its properties or assets are
bound, which conflict, violation or breach would have a material adverse effect
on the Seller's ability to perform its obligations hereunder or under the



                                        8
<PAGE>   12
Cross-Guarantee Agreement or on the ownership by the Trust of the Receivables.

         (e) No Proceedings Regarding the Seller. There are no proceedings,
injunctions, writs, restraining orders or other orders or investigations pending
or, to the best knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the Seller, threatened
against the Seller before any Governmental Authority (i) asserting the
illegality, invalidity or unenforceability, or seeking any determination or
ruling that would affect the legality, binding effect, validity or
enforceability of this Agreement, the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement or the Certificates, (ii) seeking to prevent the issuance of
the Certificates or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement, the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement or the Certificates, (iii) seeking any determination or ruling that is
reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
results of operations of the Seller or the performance by the Seller of its
obligations under this Agreement or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement or (iv)
seeking to affect adversely the income or franchise tax attributes of the Trust
under the United States federal or State of Texas income or franchise tax
systems.

         (f) Consents. No authorization, consent, license, order or approval of
or registration or declaration with any Person or Governmental Authority is
required to be obtained, effected or given by the Seller in connection with the
execution and delivery of this Agreement or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement by the
Seller or the performance of its obligations under this Agreement or the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby, except for
(i) the filing of the financing statements or other documents required to have
been filed on or prior to the Transfer Date pursuant to Section 2.01(a) of the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement, all of which were so filed and are in full
force and effect, and (ii) the filing from time to time of any amendments,
assignments or continuation statements which may become applicable pursuant to
Section 2.01(a) of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

         (g) Liens. Each Receivable is owned by the Seller free and clear of any
Lien except as provided for herein; and no effective financing statement or
other instrument similar in effect covering any Receivable or Collections with
respect thereto is on file in any recording office except such as may be filed
in favor of the Purchaser and the Trustee and as otherwise provided for in this
Agreement and the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, including Liens that will be
terminated on or before the Transfer Date.

         (h) Locations. The chief place of business and chief executive office
of the Seller, and the offices where the Seller keeps the originals of its
books, records and documents regarding the Receivables are located at the
address of the Seller specified in Section 8.09. During the four months prior to
the Transfer Date and prior to any Purchase Date, the chief place of business
and



                                        9
<PAGE>   13
chief executive office of the Seller, and the offices where the Seller keeps the
originals of its books, records and documents regarding the Receivables were/are
located at the address of the Seller specified in Section 8.09.

         (i) Information. Each certificate, information, exhibit, financial
statement, document, book, record or report furnished by the Seller to the
Purchaser in connection with this Agreement and in connection with each
Receivable is accurate in all material respects as of its date and no such
document contains any material misstatement of fact.

         (j) Enforceability. Each of this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee
Agreement constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Seller
enforceable against the Seller in accordance with its terms, except as such
enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights
generally, now or hereafter in effect, and except as such enforceability may be
limited by general principles of equity (whether considered in a suit at law or
in equity).

         (k) Valid Transfers. This Agreement constitutes a valid sale, transfer
and assignment to the Purchaser of all right, title and interest of the Seller
in and to the Receivables, whether now existing or hereafter created during the
Effective Period, and the proceeds thereof.

         (l) Dell Collection Accounts. Schedule I to the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement is a complete and accurate list of each Dell Collection Account as of
each Purchase Date.

         (m) Solvency. The Seller is solvent and will not become insolvent after
giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement; the Seller is currently repaying all of its
indebtedness as such indebtedness becomes due; and, after giving effect to the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement,
the Seller will have adequate capital to conduct its business as presently
conducted and as contemplated by this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee
Agreement.

         (n) Compliance. The Seller has complied, and will comply on each
Purchase Date, in all material respects with all Requirements of Law with
respect to it, its business and properties and all Receivables sold hereunder
and the Contracts related thereto. The Seller has maintained and will maintain
all applicable permits, certifications and licenses necessary in any material
respect with respect to its business and properties and all Receivables sold
hereunder and the Contracts related thereto. The Seller has filed or caused to
be filed on a timely basis all tax returns required by any Governmental
Authority.



                                       10
<PAGE>   14
         (o) No Rescission. Neither any Receivable sold hereunder nor the
related Contract has been satisfied, subordinated or rescinded or, except as
disclosed in writing to the Purchaser, amended in any manner and the amounts
billed under such Receivables have not been compromised, adjusted, extended,
satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or modified, except as permitted under the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

         (p) No Payment. The Seller has no knowledge of any fact which would
lead it to expect that, when billed, any Receivable sold hereunder would not be
paid in accordance with its terms when due.

         (q) No Insolvency Event. No Insolvency Event has occurred with respect
to the Seller.

         (r) Fraudulent Conveyance. The Seller is not entering into the
transactions contemplated hereby with the intent of hindering, delaying or
defrauding creditors.

         (s) Sale and Transfer. This Agreement creates a valid sale, transfer
and assignment to the Purchaser of, and the Purchaser is the legal and
beneficial owner of, all right, title and interest of the Seller in and to the
Receivables now existing and hereafter created during the term of this Agreement
and in the proceeds thereof.

         (t) Eligible Receivables. Each Receivable classified as an "Eligible
Receivable" by the Seller on its records or in any document or report delivered
hereunder satisfied, at the time of such classification, the requirements of
eligibility contained in the definition of Eligible Receivable in the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement; provided, however, that this representation shall not
cover Reconveyed Receivables.

         (u) Invoices. The Seller has submitted all necessary documents, if any,
to each Obligor in connection with payments due with respect to such Obligor's
Receivables.

         (v) No Proceedings Regarding the Receivables. There are no proceedings,
injunctions, writs, restraining orders or other orders or investigations pending
or, to the best knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the Seller, threatened
with respect to any Receivable or Contract before any Governmental Authority
asserting the illegality, invalidity or unenforceability, or seeking any
determination or ruling that would affect the legality, binding effect, validity
or enforceability of any Receivable or Contract.

         (w) Tradenames. The legal name of the Seller is as set forth on the
signature page of this Agreement and the Seller has no tradenames, fictitious
names, assumed names or "doing business as" names.



                                       11
<PAGE>   15
         (x) ERISA. No Plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) maintained by
the Seller or any of its ERISA Affiliates (as defined in Section 414(b), (c),
(m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code) has any accumulated funding deficiency
(within the meaning of Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the Internal
Revenue Code), whether or not waived. The Seller and each ERISA Affiliate of the
Seller has timely made all contributions required to be made by it to any Plan
and Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) to which
contributions are or have been required to be made since January 3, 1991 by the
Seller or such ERISA Affiliate, and no event requiring notice to the PBGC (as
defined in Section 2613.2 of the ERISA Regulations) under Section 302(f) of
ERISA has occurred and is continuing or could reasonably be expected to occur
with respect to any such Plan, in any case, that could reasonably be expected to
result, directly or indirectly, in any Lien being imposed on the property of the
Seller or the payment of any material amount to avoid such Lien. No Plan Event
(as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to the Seller or any of its
ERISA Affiliates has occurred or could reasonably be expected to occur that
could reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in any Lien
being imposed on the property of the Seller or the payment of any material
amount to avoid such Lien.

         (y) Accounts. All Receivables constitute "accounts", "general
intangibles" or "proceeds" thereof, as each such term is defined in the UCC.

         (z) Sale. For federal income tax, reporting and accounting purposes,
the Seller will treat the sale of each Receivable sold pursuant to this
Agreement as a sale, or absolute assignment, of all its right, title and
ownership interest in and to such Receivable to the Purchaser and the Purchaser
has not and will not account for or treat the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement in any other manner. This representation shall cease to be effective
if the Seller shall have received an Opinion of Counsel that a change in
applicable law occurring after the date hereof renders this representation
unlawful or inadvisable.

         SECTION 4.02. Representations and Warranties of the Purchaser. The
Purchaser represents and warrants to the Seller as of the Transfer Date and each
Purchase Date that:

         (a) Organization and Good Standing. The Purchaser is a limited
partnership duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Texas and has full power, authority and legal right to own its properties and
conduct its business as presently owned or conducted and as is proposed to be
conducted under this Agreement.

         (b) No Conflict. The Purchaser's execution and delivery of this
Agreement, purchase of the Receivables pursuant to this Agreement and
fulfillment of the terms hereof applicable to the Purchaser, do not contravene
the Purchaser's limited partnership



                                       12
<PAGE>   16
agreement, conflict with or violate any Requirements of Law applicable to the
Purchaser, conflict with, result in a breach of any of the material terms or
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under, any indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or
other instrument to which the Purchaser is a party or by which it or its
properties or assets are bound. Neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement nor the purchase of the Receivables pursuant to this Agreement nor the
fulfillment of the terms hereof applicable to the Purchaser will result in the
creation of an adverse claim against the Purchaser or any assets of the
Purchaser except those created under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

         (c) Due Authorization. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by
the Purchaser, and the purchase by the Purchaser of the Receivables, have been
duly and validly authorized by all necessary action on the part of the Purchaser
and this Agreement and the other agreements and instruments executed or to be
executed in connection herewith have been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of the Purchaser.

         (d) Enforceability. This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and
binding obligation of the Purchaser enforceable against the Purchaser in
accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by
applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar
laws affecting creditors' rights generally, now or hereafter in effect, and
except as such enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity
(whether considered in a suit at law or in equity).

         SECTION 4.03. Obligations Unaffected. The obligations of the Seller to
the Purchaser under this Agreement shall not be affected by reason of any
invalidity, illegality or irregularity of any Receivable or the sale of any
Receivable.



                                       13
<PAGE>   17
                                    ARTICLE V

                                    COVENANTS

         SECTION 5.01. Affirmative Covenants of the Seller. The Seller hereby
covenants that, until the termination of the Effective Period:

         (a) Compliance with Law. The Seller will comply in all material
respects with all Requirements of Law applicable to it, its business and
properties and the Receivables.

         (b) Preservation of Existence. (i) Except as otherwise permitted by
subsection (ii) of this Section 5.01(b), the Seller will preserve and maintain
its existence, rights, franchises and privileges in the State of Texas, and
qualify and remain qualified in each jurisdiction where the failure to maintain
such qualification would materially and adversely affect (A) the interests of
the Purchaser hereunder or in the Receivables, (B) the collectibility of any
Receivable or (C) the ability of the Seller to perform its obligations hereunder
in any material respects and (ii) the Seller shall not consolidate with or merge
into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets
substantially as an entirety to any Person unless: (1) Dell is the direct or
indirect owner of all of the issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock
or partnership interests or other equity interests of the Person formed by such
consolidation or into which the Seller is merged or the Person which acquires by
conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the Seller substantially as
an entirety; (2) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the
Seller is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the
properties and assets of the Seller substantially as an entirety shall be, if
the Seller is not the surviving entity, a corporation, limited partnership or
limited liability company organized and existing under the laws of the United
States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and such
corporation, limited partnership or limited liability company shall have
expressly assumed, by an agreement supplemental hereto, executed and delivered
to the Purchaser, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser, the
performance of every covenant and obligation of the Seller hereunder and under
the other Transaction Documents; (3) the Seller shall have delivered to the
Purchaser an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each in form
reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser and stating that such consolidation,
merger, conveyance or transfer complies with this Section 5.01(b) and (4) the
Rating Agency Condition shall be satisfied.

         (c) Audits. At any time and from time to time during the Seller's
regular business hours and at the Seller's expense, on reasonable prior notice
and for a purpose reasonably related to this Agreement, the Seller shall, in
response to any reasonable request of the Purchaser, permit the Purchaser, or
its agents or representatives, (i) to examine and make copies of and abstracts



                                       14
<PAGE>   18
from all books, records and documents (including, without limitation, computer
tapes, microfiche and disks) in the possession or under the control of the
Seller relating to the Receivables and the related Contracts and (ii) to visit
the offices and properties of the Seller for the purpose of examining such
materials and to discuss matters relating to the Receivables or the Seller's
performance hereunder with any of the officers or (after consultation with a
Responsible Officer) employees of the Seller having knowledge thereof; provided,
however, that, so long as no Termination Event, Partial Amortization Period or
Cure Period shall have occurred and be continuing, the Purchaser shall use its
best efforts to coordinate the exercise of its rights under this Section 5.01(c)
with the exercise of like rights of the Trustee and the Program Agent, and the
rights of the Purchaser under this Section 5.01(c) shall be at the Seller's
expense only twice in any twelve-month period.

         (d) Keeping of Records and Books of Account. The Seller will maintain
and implement administrative and operating procedures (including, without
limitation, the ability to recreate records evidencing the Receivables in the
event of the destruction of the originals thereof), and keep and maintain all
documents, books, records and other information reasonably necessary or
advisable for the collection of the Receivables (including, without limitation,
records adequate to permit the daily identification of each new Receivable and
all Collections of and adjustments to each existing Receivable).

         (e) Performance and Compliance with Receivables. The Seller will, at
its expense, timely and fully perform and comply with all provisions, covenants
and other promises required to be observed by it hereunder, except where the
failure to so perform or comply would not have a material adverse effect on the
collectibility of the Receivables or the Seller's ability to perform in all
material respects its obligations hereunder.

         (f) Location of Records. The Seller will keep its chief place of
business and chief executive office and the office where it keeps the books,
records and documents regarding the Receivables, at the address of the Seller
specified in Section 8.09.

         (g) Credit Policy and Procedures Manual. The Seller will comply in all
material respects with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual in regard to the
Receivables and the related Contracts.

         (h) Collections. The Seller will instruct all Obligors to cause all
Collections of Receivables to be deposited directly to Dell Collection Accounts.

         (i) Protection of Purchaser's Interest in Receivables.



                                       15
<PAGE>   19
         (i)   The Seller will not create, permit or suffer to exist, and will
     take such actions as are necessary to remove, any Lien, claim or right in,
     to or on the Receivables conveyed hereunder, other than the Liens created
     hereby and by the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, and will defend the
     right, title and interest of the Purchaser and the Trustee in and to the
     Receivables conveyed hereunder against any Liens thereon or the claims and
     demands of all persons whomsoever based on breaches of representations and
     warranties in this Agreement.

         (ii)  The Seller will advise the Purchaser and the Trustee promptly, in
     reasonable detail, (A) of any Lien or claim asserted against any of the
     Receivables, other than the Liens created hereby and by the Pooling and
     Servicing Agreement, (B) of the occurrence of any breach by the Seller of
     any of its representations, warranties and covenants contained herein and
     (C) of the occurrence of any other event which in the case of clauses (A)
     or (B) would have a material adverse effect on the value of the
     Receivables.

         (iii) The Seller shall execute and file such continuation statements
     and any other documents reasonably requested by the Purchaser or which may
     be required by law to fully preserve and protect the interests of the
     Purchaser hereunder and of the Trustee under the Pooling and Servicing
     Agreement in and to the Receivables conveyed hereby.

         (iv)  The Seller will not, without providing 45 days' prior written
     notice to the Purchaser and the Trustee and without filing such amendments
     to any previously filed financing statements as the Purchaser or the
     Trustee may reasonably require, (i) change the location of its chief
     executive office or the location of the office where the principal records
     relating to the Receivables are kept or (ii) change its name, identity or
     business structure in any manner which would, could or might make any
     financing statement or continuation statement filed by the Seller in
     accordance with this Agreement "seriously misleading" with the meaning of
     Section 9-402(7) of any applicable enactment of the UCC.

         (v)   The Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser and the Trustee on or
     before April 30 of each year, beginning with April 30, 1996, an Opinion of
     Counsel to the Seller (who may be counsel employed by the Seller or an
     Affiliate of the Seller), dated as of a date subsequent to the end of the
     immediately preceding fiscal year, substantially to the effect that, in the
     opinion of such counsel, either (A) such action has been taken with respect
     to the recording, registering, filing, re-recording, re-registering and
     re-filing of financing statements, continuation statements or other
     instructions or documents as is necessary to continue the perfection of the
     interests of the Purchaser and the Trustee in and to the Receivables
     conveyed hereby (to the same extent as such interest was perfected on the
     Transfer Date with



                                       16


<PAGE>   20
     respect to the Receivables then owned by the Purchaser) and reciting the
     details of such action or referring to prior Opinions of Counsel in which
     such details are given or (B) no such action is necessary to continue the
     perfection of such interests.

         (j) Separate Legal Existence. The Seller acknowledges that the
Purchaser, the Trustee and the Certificateholders are entering into the
agreements and consummating the transactions contemplated hereby and by the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement in reliance on the identity of the Purchaser as
a separate legal entity, and the rights and interests of such Persons would be
prejudiced if this reliance were undermined. Accordingly, the Seller will take
such steps as are necessary and within its control to maintain the Purchaser's
separate legal existence and identity and to make it apparent to third parties
that the Purchaser is an entity with assets and liabilities distinct from those
of the Seller or any other subsidiary or Affiliate of the Seller. Such steps
will include the following:

         (i) The Seller will conduct its business solely in its own legal name,
     and in such a separate manner so as not to mislead others with which it is
     dealing.

         (ii) The Seller will maintain its own separate business records, will
     maintain its own office with its own telephone number and will observe all
     legal formalities in formation and management.

         (iii) All financial statements of the Seller and Dell will contain
     notes clearly indicating that all of the Purchaser's assets are owned by
     the Purchaser, which is a separate legal entity.

         (iv) The Seller will maintain arm's-length relationships with the
     Purchaser. Any transaction between the Purchaser and the Seller or any of
     its subsidiaries will, in the reasonable judgement of the Seller, be fair
     and equitable to the Purchaser and on terms which are at least as favorable
     as could be obtained from a Person which is not an Affiliate.

         (v) The Seller will not agree to be, or hold itself out to be,
     responsible for the debts of the Purchaser or the decisions or actions with
     respect to the daily business and affairs of the Purchaser, except that (A)
     pursuant to any Enhancement Agreement, the Seller may indemnify any
     Enhancement Provider (and related Persons) against losses caused by actions
     or omissions of the Seller and (B) the Seller may guarantee the Purchaser's
     obligations to pay any premiums or commitment fees to an Enhancement
     Provider.

         (vi) The Seller will not cause the Purchaser to be named, directly or
     indirectly, as a direct or contingent beneficiary or loss payee on any
     insurance policy with respect to any loss



                                       17
<PAGE>   21
     relating to the property of the Seller or any other subsidiary or Affiliate
     of the Seller.

         (k) Repurchase Obligation. In the event of any breach of the
representation and warranty set forth in Section 4.01(t), if the Purchaser shall
be obligated to repurchase Reconveyed Receivables pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, the Seller shall repurchase from the
Purchaser such Reconveyed Receivables and shall pay to the Purchaser on the
Business Day preceding the day on which such repurchase of Reconveyed
Receivables is to be made an amount equal to the purchase price for the
Reconveyed Receivables paid by the Purchaser pursuant to the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement, such payment, at the option of the Purchaser, to be made
either in cash or through a reduction of the amount due under the Subordinated
Note. The obligation of the Seller to repurchase the Reconveyed Receivables
pursuant to this Section 5.01(k) shall constitute the sole remedy against the
Seller respecting an event of the type specified in the first sentence of this
paragraph available to the Purchaser or the Investor Certificateholders (or the
Trustee on behalf of the Investor Certificateholders) or any other Indemnified
Party. Reconveyed Receivables which are repurchased pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, together with any Collections thereon,
shall be promptly removed from the Trust.

         SECTION 5.02. Reporting Requirements of the Seller. The Seller hereby
covenants that, until the termination of the Effective Period:

         (a) Termination Events. The Seller shall (i) within one Business Day
after a Responsible Officer of the Seller obtains knowledge of the occurrence of
any Termination Event or event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time
or both, would constitute a Termination Event, notify (either orally or in
writing) the Purchaser of such occurrence; and (ii) as soon as possible and in
any event within three Business Days after a Responsible Officer of the Seller
obtains knowledge of the occurrence of any Termination Event or event which,
with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a
Termination Event, deliver to the Purchaser a statement of a Responsible Officer
of the Seller setting forth details of such Termination Event or such event and
the action that the Seller has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto.

         (b) Litigation. As soon as possible and in any event within 10 Business
Days after a Responsible Officer of the Seller obtains knowledge thereof, the
Seller shall notify the Purchaser of any litigation, investigation or proceeding
which could reasonably be expected to impair in any material respect the ability
of the Seller to perform its obligations under this Agreement; and

         (c) Other Information. The Seller shall promptly deliver to the
Purchaser such other information, documents, records or reports regarding the
Receivables as the Purchaser may from time



                                       18
<PAGE>   22
to time reasonably request in order to protect the Purchaser's interests under
or as contemplated by this Agreement.

         SECTION 5.03. Negative Covenants of the Seller. The Seller hereby
covenants that, until the termination of the Effective Period, it will not:

         (a) Sales, Liens, Etc. Except as otherwise contemplated herein, or
pursuant to or as contemplated by the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, (i) sell,
assign (by operation of law or otherwise) or otherwise dispose of, or create or
suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to, any Receivable or upon or with
respect to any account in the name of the Trustee for the benefit of the
Certificateholders or upon or with respect to any Dell Collection Account to
which any Collections of any Receivables are sent, or (ii) assign any right to
receive income in respect thereof.

         (b) Extension or Amendment of Receivables. Except as consistent with
the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual or as otherwise permitted under the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement, (i) extend, amend or otherwise modify the terms
of any Receivable, (ii) amend, modify or waive any payment term or condition of
any invoice related thereto, which extension, amendment, modification or waiver
would impair the collectibility or delay the payment of any Receivable in a
manner inconsistent with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual, or (iii)
rescind or cancel any Receivable except as ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority.

         (c) Change in Business or Credit Policy and Procedures Manual. Make any
change in the character of its business or in the Credit Policy and Procedures
Manual, which change would, in either case, materially impair the collectibility
of the Receivables, except as permitted under the terms of the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement.

         (d) Change in Dell Collection Account Banks. Except as permitted under
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, add or terminate any bank as a Dell
Collection Account Bank from those listed in Schedule I attached to the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement, or make any change in its instructions to Obligors
regarding payments to be made to any Dell Collection Account Bank, unless the
Purchaser and the Trustee shall have received notice of such addition,
termination or change and executed copies of Dell Collection Account Letters to
each new Dell Collection Account Bank.

         (e) Change in Name, Etc. Make any change to its name or structure, or
use any tradenames, fictitious names, assumed names or "doing business as"
names, unless, in the case of such name change or use and prior to the effective
date thereof, the Seller delivers to the Purchaser such financing statements or
amendments to financing statements (Form UCC-1 and UCC-3) executed by the



                                       19
<PAGE>   23
Seller which the Purchaser may request to reflect such name change or use,
together with such other documents and instruments that the Purchaser may
reasonably request in connection therewith.

         (f) Deposits to Dell Collection Accounts. Deposit or otherwise credit,
or cause or permit to be so deposited or credited, to any Dell Collection
Account cash or cash proceeds other than Collections of Receivables.

         (g) No Actions Against Obligors. Except in accordance with the Credit
Policy and Procedures Manual and the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, commence
or settle any legal action to enforce collection of any Receivable.

         (h) No Bankruptcy Filing Against the Purchaser or the Trust. Commence,
institute or cause to be commenced or instituted any bankruptcy, reorganization,
arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other proceedings under
any United States federal or state bankruptcy or similar law against the
Purchaser or the Trust.

         (i) No Claims Against the Receivables. Claim any credit on, or make any
deduction from, the principal or interest payable in respect of the Certificates
by reason of the payment of any taxes levied or assessed upon any part of the
Receivables.

         (j) Locations of Subsidiaries. Permit any of the Originators to have or
maintain its jurisdiction of organization or principal place of business in any
of the States of Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Utah or Wyoming.

         (k) Subordinated Note. Transfer or pledge the Subordinated Note to any
Person.

         SECTION 5.04. Affirmative Mutual Covenant. The Purchaser and Seller
shall record each Purchase as a purchase and sale, respectively, on its books
and records and reflect each Purchase in its financial statements as a purchase
and sale, respectively.

         SECTION 5.05. Grant of Security Interest. To secure all obligations of
the Seller arising in connection with this Agreement, and each other agreement
entered into in connection with this Agreement, whether now or hereafter
existing, due or to become due, direct or indirect, or absolute or contingent,
including, without limitation, Indemnified Amounts, payments on account of
Collections received or deemed to be received, fees and any other amounts due
the Purchaser hereunder, the Seller hereby assigns and grants to Purchaser a
first priority security interest in all of the Seller's right, title and
interest now or hereafter existing in, to and under all Receivables and
Collections with regard thereto, and all books, records and computer files
relating thereto.



                                       20
<PAGE>   24
                                   ARTICLE VI

                              EVENTS OF TERMINATION

         SECTION 6.01. Termination. If any of the following events (each, a
"Termination Event") shall have occurred:

         (a) any failure by the Seller to make any payment, transfer or deposit
required to be paid, effected or made by it hereunder on or before the date
occurring two Business Days after the date such payment, transfer or deposit is
required to be made hereunder; or

         (b) any representation, warranty, certification or written statement
made or deemed made by the Seller under or in connection with this Agreement or
in any statement, record, certificate, financial statement or other document
delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall prove to have been
incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made which
has a material adverse effect on the Certificateholders and continues unremedied
for 20 days (or, with respect to the representations and warranties made in
Sections 4.01(g) and 4.01(k), continues unremedied for five days) after the
earlier of (i) the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the
same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Seller by the Purchaser and
(ii) the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be
remedied, shall have been given to the Seller and the Trustee by
Certificateholders of any outstanding Series evidencing not less than 20% of the
Invested Amount for such Series; or

         (c) the Seller shall fail to observe or perform in any material respect
any covenant or agreement applicable to it contained herein (other than as
specified in clause (a) or (b) above) which has a material adverse effect on the
Certificate- holders and continues unremedied for 20 days (or with respect to
the covenants contained in Sections 5.03(a) and 5.03(d) shall continue for five
days) after the earlier of (i) the date on which written notice of such failure,
requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Seller by the
Purchaser and (ii) the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring
the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Seller and the Trustee by
Certificateholders of any outstanding Series evidencing not less than 20% of the
Invested Amount for such Series; or

         (d) any Receivables transferred hereunder which constitute more than 1%
of the aggregate amount of Eligible Receivables shall for any reason cease to be
the valid and perfected subject of the security interest created by this
Agreement; or any Receivables transferred hereunder which constitute more than
1% of the aggregate amount of Eligible Receivables shall cease to be free and
clear of any Lien except as provided for herein; or



                                       21
<PAGE>   25
         (e) an Insolvency Event shall occur with respect to the Seller or the
Purchaser; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 6.01, the
definition of "Insolvency Event" shall be construed without giving effect to the
60-day grace period in clause (a) thereof (except with respect to any Controlled
Affiliate that is not a party to any Transaction Document); or

         (f) the Internal Revenue Service shall file notice of a lien pursuant
to Section 6323 of the Internal Revenue Code with regard to any of the
Receivables and such lien shall not have been (x) stayed or released within 30
days or, if stayed, such lien shall not have been released within 60 days; or
(y) the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation shall file notice of a lien
pursuant to Section 4068 of ERISA with regard to any of the Receivables and such
filing shall not be stayed or rescinded within 15; or

         (g) there shall have occurred an Early Amortization Event under the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement;

then, if any of the events set forth in paragraphs (a), (d), (e), (f) or (g)
above shall have occurred, a "Termination Event" shall occur without any notice,
demand, protest or other requirement of any kind immediately upon the occurrence
of such event and, if any of the events set forth in paragraphs (b) or (c) above
shall have occurred, the Purchaser may, by notice to the Seller, declare that a
"Termination Event" shall occur as of the date set forth in such notice. Upon
the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Effective Period shall terminate (any
termination of the Effective Period pursuant to this Section 6.01 is herein
referred to as an "Early Termination"). Upon any Early Termination the Purchaser
shall have, in addition to any rights and remedies under this Agreement, all
other rights and remedies with respect to the Receivables provided after default
under the UCC of the applicable jurisdiction and under other applicable laws,
which rights and remedies shall be cumulative.

         A Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series may, on behalf of all
Certificateholders, waive any default by the Seller in the performance of its
obligations hereunder and its consequences, except (1) the failure to make any
distributions or payments required to be made to the Purchaser or to make any
required deposits of any amounts to be so distributed or paid can be waived only
(a) with respect to Indemnified Amounts, with the consent of the relevant
Indemnified Party or (b) with respect to other amounts, with unanimous consent
of all Certificateholders of all outstanding Series and (2) defaults arising
from the events set forth in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g). No such waiver shall
extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon
except to the extent expressly so waived.



                                       22
<PAGE>   26
                                   ARTICLE VII

                                 INDEMNIFICATION

         SECTION 7.01. Indemnification. (a) Without limiting any other rights
which the Purchaser may have hereunder or under any applicable law, the Seller
hereby agrees to indemnify the Purchaser and the Trustee and their respective
assignees (which shall not be deemed to include any of the Certificateholders as
such) and their respective partners, officers, directors, employees and
Affiliates (collectively, the "Indemnified Parties") from and against any and
all damages, losses, liabilities and related costs and expenses actually
incurred (excluding consequential damages and lost profits), including
reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements (all of the foregoing being
collectively referred to as "Indemnified Amounts"), awarded against or incurred
by any of them arising out of or resulting from this Agreement, the activities
of the Seller in connection herewith or in respect of any Receivable (excluding
however (A) Indemnified Amounts resulting from gross negligence or willful
misconduct on the part of the Indemnified Party (other than the Purchaser) to
which such Indemnified Amount would otherwise be due, (B) losses in respect of
Receivables to the extent reimbursement therefor would constitute credit
recourse to the Seller for nonpayment of any Receivable by the related Obligor,
(C) any income or franchise or similar taxes (or any interest or penalties with
respect thereto) incurred by such Indemnified Party arising out of or as a
result of this Agreement or in respect of any Receivable and (D) Indemnified
Amounts resulting from the acts or omissions of the Servicer (unless the
Servicer is an Affiliate of Dell)), to the extent caused by:

         (i)   reliance on any representation, warranty or covenant made or
     statement made or deemed made by the Seller (or any of its Responsible
     Officers) under or in connection with this Agreement, which shall have been
     incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made or which the
     Seller shall have failed to perform;

         (ii)  the failure by the Seller to comply with this Agreement or any
     Requirement of Law with respect to any Receivable or the related Contract;
     or the failure of any Receivable or the related Contract to conform to this
     Agreement or any such Requirement of Law;

         (iii) the existence of any dispute, claim, offset or defense (other
     than discharge in bankruptcy of the Obligor) of the Obligor to the payment
     of any Receivable (including, without limitation, a defense based on such
     Receivable or the related Contract not being a legal, valid and binding
     obligation of such Obligor enforceable against it in accordance with its
     terms), or of any other claim resulting from the sale of the products or
     services related to such



                                       23
<PAGE>   27
     Receivable or from the furnishing or failure to furnish such products or
     services;

         (iv) the failure to vest in the Purchaser absolute ownership of the
     Receivables free and clear of any Lien;

         (v)    the failure of the Seller to have filed, or any delay in filing,
     any financing statements or other similar instruments or documents under
     the UCC of any applicable jurisdiction or other applicable laws that are
     necessary for perfection or priority of the ownership and security
     interests created by this Agreement;

         (vi)   any commingling by the Seller of Collections with other funds of
     the Seller or any Affiliate;

         (vii)  any investigation, litigation or proceeding related to this
     Agreement or the use of proceeds of Purchases or the ownership of or
     security interest in Receivables or Collections with respect thereto, or in
     respect of any Contract related thereto, other than any investigation,
     litigation or proceeding relating to such Indemnified Party's affairs which
     includes matters or transactions in addition to those contemplated by the
     Transaction Documents;

         (viii) any products liability or other claim arising out of or in
     connection with products or services which are the subject of any Contract;

         (ix) any reduction in the Outstanding Balance of a Receivable (other
     than a Reconveyed Receivable) by reason of any defective, rejected,
     returned, repossessed or foreclosed merchandise or services or any cash
     discount or other adjustment made by the Seller;

         (x)    any breach by the Seller of any obligation under any Receivable
     or any Contract;

         (xi)   any failure of the Seller to perform its duties or obligations 
     in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; or

         (xii)  any tax (other than any income or franchise or similar tax, or
     any interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed by reason of
     ownership of the Receivables by the Purchaser.

         (b)    Any Indemnified Amounts due hereunder shall be payable within 
ten Business Days of submission of a claim by the Indemnified Party.

         (c)    Each Indemnified Party will use its best efforts to notify the
Seller in advance of making any claim under this Section 7.01.



                                       24
<PAGE>   28
                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

         SECTION 8.01. Further Assurances. (a) The Seller agrees to do and
perform, from time to time, any and all acts and to execute and deliver to the
Purchaser or the Trustee any and all further assignments, agreements, powers and
instruments reasonably required or requested by the Purchaser more fully to
effect the purposes of this Agreement and the sales of the Receivables
hereunder, including, without limitation, the execution of any financing
statements or continuation statements relating to the Receivables for filing
under the provisions of the UCC, or any similar law, of any applicable
jurisdiction. The Seller will mark its computer files in a manner reasonably
calculated to indicate that the Receivables have been sold to the Purchaser.

         (b) The Purchaser agrees to do such further acts and things and to
execute and deliver to the Seller or the Trustee such additional assignments,
agreements, powers and instruments as are reasonably required by the Seller to
carry into effect the purposes of this Agreement or to better assure and confirm
unto the Seller or the Trustee its rights, powers and remedies hereunder.

         SECTION 8.02. Payments. Each payment to be made by either of the
Purchaser or the Seller hereunder shall be made on the required payment date, or
on the next succeeding Business Day if the required payment date is not a
Business Day, in lawful money of the United States and in immediately available
funds at the office of the payee set forth in Section 8.09 below or to such
other office as may be specified by either party in a written notice to the
other party hereto.

         SECTION 8.03. Costs, Expenses and Taxes. (a) In addition to the rights
of indemnification granted to the Purchaser pursuant to Article VII hereof, the
Seller agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Purchaser in
connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of all documents to be
delivered subsequent to the Transfer Date pursuant to this Agreement, including,
without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel
for the Purchaser with respect thereto and with respect to advising the
Purchaser as to its rights and remedies under this Agreement, and the Seller
agrees to pay all costs and expenses of the Purchaser, if any (including
reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement of
this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder excluding,
however, any costs of enforcement or collection of any Receivables.

         (b) In addition, the Seller agrees to pay any and all stamp and other
taxes (other than any income or franchise or similar taxes, or any interest or
penalties with respect thereto) and fees payable or determined to be payable in
connection with the execution, delivery, filing and recording of this Agreement
and



                                       25
<PAGE>   29
any documents to be delivered hereunder, and the Seller agrees to indemnify the
Purchaser against any liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay in
paying or omission to pay such taxes and fees.

         SECTION 8.04. Binding Effect; Assignability. (a) This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Seller and the Purchaser and
their respective successors (whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise) and
assigns. Except as otherwise permitted herein, the Seller agrees that it will
not assign or transfer all or any portion of its rights or obligations hereunder
to any Person (other than Dell or any of its Controlled Affiliates) without the
prior written consent of the Purchaser and a Majority in Interest of each
outstanding Series. In connection with any sale or assignment by the Purchaser
of all or a portion of the Receivables, the buyer or assignee, as the case may
be, shall, to the extent of its purchase or assignment, have all rights of the
Purchaser under this Agreement(as if such buyer or assignee, as the case may be,
were the Purchaser hereunder) except to the extent specifically provided in the
agreement between the Purchaser and such buyer or assignee.

         (b) The Seller acknowledges that the Purchaser shall assign to the
Trust, as collateral security for the Purchaser's obligations under the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement, all of the Purchaser's rights, remedies, powers and
privileges hereunder (including, without limitation, the right to give any
notice which the Purchaser may provide to the Seller hereunder), provided that
the Purchaser shall not assign or delegate any of its duties or obligations
hereunder to the Trust.

         (c) This Agreement shall create and constitute the continuing
obligations of the parties hereto in accordance with its terms, and shall remain
in full force and effect until such time, after the last Termination Date of any
Series; provided, however, that rights and remedies with respect to any breach
of any representation and warranty made by the Seller pursuant to Article IV and
the provisions of Article VII and Sections 5.03(h), 8.03 and 8.13 shall be
continuing and shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

         SECTION 8.05. Governing Law, Jurisdiction, Consent to Service of
Process.

         (a) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF
THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE
INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ITS CONFLICT OF LAW
PROVISIONS, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE PERFECTION OF THE INTERESTS OF THE
PURCHASER IN THE RECEIVABLES IS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF A JURISDICTION OTHER
THAN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

         (b) Jurisdiction. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive



                                       26
<PAGE>   30
jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States
of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof,
in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, and
each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees
that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and
determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, such
federal court and (ii) waives the defense of an inconvenient forum. Each of the
parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding
shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the
judgment or in any other manner provided by law.

         (c) Consent to Service of Process. Each party to this Agreement
irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery, certified mail,
postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the
right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner
permitted by law.

         (d) Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party to this Agreement waives any right
to a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to enforce or defend any rights
under or relating to this Agreement, any other Transaction Document, the Fee
Letter or any amendment, instrument, document or agreement delivered or which
may in the future be delivered in connection herewith or therewith or arising
from any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether verbal of
written), actions of any of the parties hereto or any other relationship
existing in connection with this Agreement or any other Transaction Document or
the Fee Letter, and agrees that any such action or proceeding shall be tried
before a court and not before a jury.

         SECTION 8.06. No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies. No failure to exercise
and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Purchaser, any right, remedy,
power or privilege hereunder, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges
herein provided are cumulative and not exhaustive of any rights, remedies,
powers and privileges provided by law.

         SECTION 8.07. Amendment. (a) This Agreement may be amended from time to
time by the Seller and the Purchaser without the consent of any of the Investor
Certificateholders (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to correct or supplement any
provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or
(iii) to add any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising
under this Agreement which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement; provided that any amendment pursuant to this clause (a) shall not, as
evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel, adversely affect in any material respect the
interests of



                                       27
<PAGE>   31
any Investor Certificateholders. Notice of any amendment entered into pursuant
to this clause (a) shall be given to the Rating Agencies.

         (b) This Agreement may be amended from time to time by the Seller and
the Purchaser, so long as the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied, with the
consent of a Majority in Interest of each adversely affected Series for the
purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any
of the provisions of this Agreement or of modifying in any manner the rights of
the Certificateholders. The Trustee may request an Officer's Certificate and
Opinion of Counsel with respect to an amendment entered into pursuant to this
clause (b) concerning compliance with the requirements of this Agreement. Any
amendment to be effected pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to adversely
affect all outstanding Series, other than any Series with respect to which such
action shall not, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel (which counsel shall not
be an employee of, or counsel for, Dell, the Seller or the Purchaser), addressed
and delivered to the Trustee, adversely affect the interests of any Investor
Certificateholder of such Series.

         SECTION 8.08. Severability. If any provision hereof is deemed void or
unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such voiding or unenforceability shall not
affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other
jurisdiction or any other provision hereof in such or any other jurisdiction.

         SECTION 8.09. Notices. All notices and other communications provided
for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing (including
telex and facsimile communication) and shall be personally delivered or sent by
certified mail, postage prepaid, or overnight courier or facsimile, to the
intended party at the address or facsimile number of such party set forth below
or at such other address or facsimile number as shall be designated by such
party in a written notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices and
communications shall be effective (a) if personally delivered, when received,
(b) if sent by certified mail, four Business Days after having been deposited in
the mail, postage prepaid, (c) if sent by overnight courier, two Business Days
after having been given to such courier, unless sooner received by the addressee
and (d) if transmitted by facsimile, when sent, upon receipt confirmed by
telephone or electronic means. Notices and communications sent hereunder on a
day that is not a Business Day shall be deemed to have been sent on the
following Business Day.



                                       28
<PAGE>   32
         (a)      If to the Seller,

                  Dell Marketing L.P.
                  2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
                  Austin, Texas  78758
                  Tel: (512) 728-3343
                  Fax: (512) 728-0043
                  Attn: Treasurer

         (b)      If to the Purchaser,

                  Dell Receivables L.P.
                  2112 Kramer Lane
                  Austin, Texas  78758
                  Tel: (512) 728-5829
                  Fax: (512) 728-5986
                  Attn: Assistant Treasurer

         SECTION 8.10. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any
number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original,
and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

         SECTION 8.11. Construction of Agreement as Security Agreement. It is
the intent of the parties that the transactions contemplated herein constitute
sales of the Receivables to the Purchaser. If, however, such transactions are
deemed to be loans, (a) the Seller hereby grants to the Purchaser a first
priority security interest in all of the Seller's right, title and interest in
and to the Receivables now existing and hereafter created, all monies due or to
become due and all amounts and other proceeds received with respect thereto, to
secure all of the Seller's obligations hereunder, and (b) this Agreement shall
constitute a security agreement under applicable law.

         SECTION 8.12. Termination. This Agreement will terminate on the last
Termination Date specified in any Series Supplement; provided, however, that the
representations, warranties and remedies offered by or made available against
the Seller, the indemnities of the Seller to the Indemnified Parties set forth
in this Agreement shall survive such termination, and provided, further, that
the Purchaser shall remain entitled to receive any collections on Receivables
sold hereunder which have become Defaulted Receivables after it shall have
completed its collection efforts in respect thereof.

         SECTION 8.13. Third-Party Beneficiary. The Indemnified Parties are
third-party beneficiaries of all provisions of this Agreement and are entitled
to enforce the provisions of Section 7.01 of this Agreement to the extent any
Indemnified Amounts are due such parties.



                                       29
<PAGE>   33
         SECTION 8.14. The Seller's Obligations. It is expressly agreed that,
anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Seller
shall be obligated to perform all of its obligations under the Receivables to
the same extent as if the Purchaser had no interest therein and the Purchaser
shall have no obligations or liability under Receivables to any Obligor
thereunder by reason of or arising out of this Agreement, nor shall the
Purchaser be required or obligated in any manner to perform or fulfill any of
the obligations of the Seller under or pursuant to any Receivable.



                                       30
<PAGE>   34
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Receivables
Purchase Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto
duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.

                                          DELL DIRECT SALES L.P.,
                                            as Seller
                                            by DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                            as its general partner

                                          By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Name:  Thomas J. Meredith
                                             Title: Chief Financial Officer

                                          DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.,

                                            as Purchaser

                                            by DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                            as its general partner

                                          By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                             -----------------------------------
                                             Name:  Thomas J. Meredith
                                             Title: President
<PAGE>   35
   
    
   
                                   EXHIBITS
    
                                      
   
           The following Exhibit has been omitted from this filing:
    
                                      
   
                        Exhibit A -- Subordinated Note
    

   
The registrant hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of such
Exhibit to the Commission upon request. The executed version of this Exhibit
appears as Exhibit 10.20 to this Report.
    


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.19
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.19
    
                                                                EXECUTION COPY

                         RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT

                                     between

                        DELL DIRECT SALES L.P., as Seller

                                       and

                       DELL RECEIVABLES L.P., as Purchaser

                          Dated as of November 21, 1995



<PAGE>   2
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.01.  Definitions..................................................  2
SECTION 1.02.  Other Definitional Provisions................................  2
SECTION 1.03.  Computation of Time Periods..................................  3


                                   ARTICLE II

                        PURCHASE AND SALE OF RECEIVABLES

SECTION 2.01.  Purchase and Sale of Receivables.............................  4
SECTION 2.02.  Payment of Purchase Price....................................  4


                                   ARTICLE III

                    CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND PURCHASES

SECTION 3.01.     Transfer Date.............................................  5
SECTION 3.02.     Conditions Precedent to All Purchases.....................  6


                                   ARTICLE IV

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

SECTION 4.01.     Representations and Warranties of the Seller..............  8
SECTION 4.02.     Representations and Warranties of the Purchaser........... 11
SECTION 4.03.     Obligations Unaffected.................................... 12

                                    ARTICLE V

                                    COVENANTS

SECTION 5.01.     Affirmative Covenants of the Seller....................... 14
SECTION 5.02.     Reporting Requirements of the Seller...................... 17
SECTION 5.03.     Negative Covenants of the Seller.......................... 18
SECTION 5.04.     Affirmative Mutual Covenant............................... 19
SECTION 5.05.     Grant of Security Interest................................ 19




                                        i


<PAGE>   3
                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----

                                   ARTICLE VI

                              EVENTS OF TERMINATION

SECTION 6.01.  Termination.................................................. 21

                                   ARTICLE VII

                                 INDEMNIFICATION

SECTION 7.01.  Indemnification.............................................. 23

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 8.01.  Further Assurances........................................... 25
SECTION 8.02.  Payments..................................................... 25
SECTION 8.03.  Costs and Expenses........................................... 25
SECTION 8.04.  Binding Effect; Assignability................................ 26
SECTION 8.05.  Governing Law, Jurisdiction, Consent to
               Service of Process........................................... 27

SECTION 8.06.  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies............................... 27
SECTION 8.07.  Amendments and Waivers....................................... 27
SECTION 8.08.  Severability................................................. 28
SECTION 8.09.  Notices...................................................... 28
SECTION 8.10.  Counterparts................................................. 28
SECTION 8.11.  Construction of Agreement as Security
               Agreement.................................................... 28

SECTION 8.12.  Termination.................................................. 28
SECTION 8.13.  Third Party Beneficiary...................................... 29
SECTION 8.14.  The Seller's Obligations..................................... 29


                                       ii


<PAGE>   4
                  RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 21, 1995,
by and between Dell Direct Sales L.P., a Texas limited partnership (in its
capacity as seller hereunder, the "Seller") and Dell Receivables L.P., a Texas
limited partnership (the "Purchaser").

                  WHEREAS, the Seller desires to sell to the Purchaser, and the
Purchaser desires to buy from the Seller, on the date hereof and from time to
time hereafter, all of the Seller's right, title and interest in, to and under
the Receivables existing on the date hereof or hereafter created; and

                  WHEREAS, all of the partnership interests in both the Seller
and the Purchaser are held indirectly by Dell Computer Corporation ("Dell") and
all of the shares of the Purchaser are owned indirectly by Dell; and

                  WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Pooling and Servicing
Agreement, dated of even date herewith (the "Pooling and Servicing Agreement"),
among the Purchaser, Dell USA L.P. (the "Servicer") and Norwest Bank Minnesota,
National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"), the Purchaser has agreed to
transfer to the Trust created pursuant to the Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
for the benefit of the Certificateholders referred to therein, all of its right,
title and interest in, to and under the Receivables;

                  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the
mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:




<PAGE>   5



                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

                  SECTION 1.01. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein but
not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement. In addition, the term "Agreement" shall mean this
Receivables Purchase Agreement, as the same may from time to time be amended,
supplemented or otherwise modified. The following capitalized terms shall have
the following meanings:

                  "Early Termination" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 6.01.

                  "Effective Period" shall mean the period beginning on the
Transfer Date and terminating on (i) the earliest of (a) the close of business
on the Business Day on which a Termination Event occurs, (b) the close of
business on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which any Early
Amortization Event occurs and (c) the close of business on the Business Day
immediately preceding the day on which the Amortization Period for the last
outstanding Series begins or (ii) such later date as is agreed to by the Seller
and the Purchaser.

                  "Purchase Date" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 2.02.

                  "Purchase Percentage" shall mean initially 98%; provided,
however, that the Purchase Percentage may change from time to time, on a basis
consistent with that used to establish the initial Purchase Percentage, to
reflect historic loss experience of the Seller's accounts receivable portfolio
and prevailing interest rates, as agreed upon by the Seller and the Purchaser.

                  "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 2.02.

                  "Termination Event" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 6.01.

                  "Transfer Date" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 3.01.

                  SECTION 1.02.     Other Definitional Provisions.  (a)  All
terms defined in this Agreement shall have the defined meanings
when used in any certificate or other document made or delivered
pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined therein.

                  (b) As used herein and in any certificate or other document
made or delivered pursuant hereto, accounting terms not defined in this
Agreement, and accounting terms partly defined in this Agreement to the extent
not completely defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them under
generally accepted



                                       2


<PAGE>   6



accounting principles in effect from time to time. To the extent that the
definitions of accounting terms herein are inconsistent with the meanings of
such terms under generally accepted accounting principles, the definitions
contained herein shall control.

                  (c) The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a
whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement; and Section,
Schedule and Exhibit references contained in this Agreement are references to
Sections, Schedules and Exhibits in or to this Agreement unless otherwise
specified; and the term "including" shall mean "including without limitation".

                  SECTION 1.03. Computation of Time Periods. Unless otherwise
stated in this Agreement, in the computation of a period of time from a
specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" shall mean "from and
including" and the words "to" and "until" shall mean "to but excluding".



                                       3


<PAGE>   7



                                   ARTICLE II

                        PURCHASE AND SALE OF RECEIVABLES

                  SECTION 2.01.     Purchase and Sale of Receivables.  Subject
to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Seller agrees to sell to the
Purchaser, and the Purchaser agrees to purchase from the Seller, during the
Effective Period, all right, title and interest of the Seller in, to and under
all Receivables now existing or hereafter created, including, without
limitation, all monies due and to become due thereunder, and all amounts
received with respect thereto and all proceeds thereof.

                  SECTION 2.02. Payment of Purchase Price. (a) On the Transfer
Date, the Seller shall sell to the Purchaser, and the Purchaser shall purchase
from the Seller, all of the Seller's right, title and interest in, to and under
all Receivables existing at the close of business on the Business Day preceding
the Transfer Date for a payment consisting of $42,552,700.75 multiplied by the
Purchase Percentage.

                  (b) On each Business Day during the Effective Period, the
Seller shall determine the Receivables arising over the course of the preceding
Business Day, which Receivables shall be deemed available for purchase by the
Purchaser on such day (each, a "Purchase Date"). To the extent that any sale of
Receivables is not reflected in the Daily Report, such Receivables will
nevertheless be deemed sold to the Purchaser in every respect and all of the
Seller's rights, title and interest in, to and under such Receivables will be
deemed to have been sold to the Purchaser.

                  (c) The purchase price payable to the Seller for the
Receivables to be purchased on any Purchase Date shall be an amount equal to the
product of (i) the aggregate Outstanding Balance of all Receivables determined
pursuant to paragraph (b) above and (ii) the Purchase Percentage (such amount,
the "Purchase Price").

                  (d) The Purchase Price shall be paid to the Seller in
immediately available funds to the extent of funds available to the Purchaser.
The excess, if any, of the Purchase Price over the payment therefor set forth in
clause (a) or (c) above, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be a loan by the
Seller to the Purchaser (a "Subordinated Loan"), evidenced by the Subordinated
Note of the Purchaser substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.


                                       4


<PAGE>   8
                                   ARTICLE III

                    CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND PURCHASES

                  SECTION 3.01. Transfer Date. This Agreement is effective on
November 21, 1995. No purchase hereunder shall occur until November 30, 1995 or
such other date agreed upon by the parties in writing (the "Transfer Date") on
or before which the following conditions precedent shall have been satisfied:

                  (a) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser
file-stamped copies of the financing statements relating to the Receivables,
naming the Seller as seller/debtor, the Purchaser as purchaser/secured party, or
other similar instruments or documents, as may be necessary or, in the opinion
of the Purchaser, desirable under the UCC of any appropriate jurisdiction or
other applicable law to perfect the Purchaser's ownership of and first priority
security interest in the Receivables, that were duly filed on or prior to the
Transfer Date with the Secretary of State of the State of Texas or other
appropriate official.

                  (b) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a copy of
the limited partnership agreement of the Seller, certified by the secretary or
an assistant secretary of the general partner of the Seller as of a recent date.

                  (c) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a
certificate of the Secretary of State of the State of Texas as to the documents
relating to the Seller which are on file in the office of such Secretary of
State.

                  (d) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a
certificate of the secretary or an assistant secretary of the general partner of
the Seller, dated the Transfer Date, certifying (i) that attached thereto is a
true and complete copy of resolutions adopted by the board of directors of the
general partner of the Seller authorizing the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement and any other documents required or contemplated
hereunder, (ii) that the limited partnership agreement of the Seller has not
been amended since the date of the certified copy furnished pursuant to clause
(b) above and (iii) the names and true signatures of the officers of the general
partner of the Seller authorized to execute this Agreement, the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement and any other documents contemplated hereunder, and
appropriately evidencing the incumbency of such secretary or assistant
secretary.

                  (e) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser certified
copies of Requests for Information or Copies (Form UCC- 11) (or a similar search
report certified by a party acceptable to the Purchaser), dated a date
reasonably near to the date of such Transfer Date, listing all effective
financing statements (including those referred to in Section 3.01(a) which name
the



                                       5


<PAGE>   9
Seller (under its present name and any previous name) as debtor and which are
filed in the jurisdictions in which filings were made pursuant to Section
3.01(a), together with copies of such financing statements (none of which
(except those filed pursuant to Section 3.01(a) shall cover any property which
may be Receivables or Collections).

                  (f) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser copies of
proper Financing Statements (Form UCC-3), if any, necessary to release all
security interests and other rights of any Person in the Receivables previously
granted by the Seller.

                  (g) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser a Dell
Collection Account Letter substantially in the form of Exhibit C to the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement, in respect of each Dell Collection Account maintained
by the Servicer, duly acknowledged by the bank holding such Dell Collection
Account.

                  (h) There shall have been delivered to the Purchaser favorable
opinions of Baker & Botts, L.L.P., counsel for the Seller, and of Thomas B.
Green, General Counsel of the Seller, each in form and substance reasonably
acceptable to the Purchaser.

                  (i) There shall have been delivered to the Seller a
certificate of the secretary or assistant secretary of the general partner of
the Purchaser, dated the Transfer Date, certifying (i) that attached thereto is
a true and complete copy of resolutions adopted by the board of directors of the
general partner of the Purchaser authorizing the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement and the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and
any other documents required or contemplated hereunder and (ii) the names and
true signatures of the officers of the general partner of the Purchaser
authorized to execute this Agreement and any other documents contemplated
hereunder, and appropriately evidencing the incumbency of such secretary or
assistant secretary.

                  (j) The Pooling and Servicing Agreement and all documentation
to be delivered in connection therewith shall have been executed and delivered
and all conditions thereto shall have been satisfied.

                  (k)      The Cross-Guarantee Agreement shall have been
executed and delivered and shall be in full force and effect.

                  (l) All legal matters incident to the execution and delivery
of this Agreement and to the purchases by the Purchaser of the Receivables from
the Seller shall be satisfactory to counsel for the Purchaser.

                  SECTION 3.02.     Conditions Precedent to All Purchases.
The obligation of the Purchaser to pay the Purchase Price with
respect to any Receivables on any Purchase Date is subject to the
following conditions precedent:



                                       6


<PAGE>   10
                  (a) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Seller shall have
delivered to the Purchaser the accounts receivable trial balance of the
Originators (which if in magnetic tape or diskette format shall be compatible
with the Purchaser's, or, if applicable, the Servicer's, computer equipment);

                  (b) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Servicer shall have
delivered to the Purchaser, in form and substance satisfactory to the Purchaser,
a completed Determination Date Certificate, together with a listing by Obligor
of all Receivables subject to such purchase, for the most recently ended
reporting period for which information is required pursuant to Section 3.05(b)
of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement and containing such additional
information as may be reasonably requested by the Purchaser;

                  (c) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Seller shall have
marked its master data processing records and, at the request of the Purchaser,
each Contract (other than any invoice sent to the Obligor under such Contract)
giving rise to Receivables and all other relevant records evidencing the
Receivables which are the subject of such purchase with a legend, acceptable to
the Purchaser, stating that such Receivables, and Collections with respect
thereto and other proceeds thereof, have been sold in accordance with this
Agreement;

                  (d) On such Purchase Date, the following statements shall be
true (and the Seller, by accepting the amount of such purchase, shall be deemed
to certify that):

                  (i)      The Seller's representations and warranties
         contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of such day as

         though made on and as of such date; and

             (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from
         such purchase, which constitutes a Termination Event or would
         constitute a Termination Event but for the requirement that notice be
         given or time elapse or both;

                  (e) On or prior to such Purchase Date, the Purchaser shall
have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as the Purchaser may
reasonably request; and

                  (f) On such Purchase Date the Seller shall have complied with
all of its covenants hereunder and shall have fulfilled in all material respects
all of its obligations hereunder.

                  The acceptance by the Seller of any payment for any
Receivables shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Seller as
to the matters set forth in this Section 3.02.



                                       7


<PAGE>   11



                                   ARTICLE IV

                         REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

                  SECTION 4.01. Representations and Warranties of the Seller.
The Seller represents and warrants to the Purchaser as of the Transfer Date and
each Purchase Date that:

                  (a) Organization. The Seller is a limited partnership duly
organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of Texas and has full
power, authority and legal right to own its properties and conduct its business,
as presently owned or conducted and as is proposed to be conducted under this
Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, and to execute, deliver and perform
its obligations under this Agreement and the Cross- Guarantee Agreement.

                  (b) Due Qualification. The Seller is duly qualified to do
business (or is exempt from such requirement), and has obtained all necessary
licenses or approvals, in each jurisdiction in which failure to so qualify or to
obtain such licenses or approvals would have a material adverse effect on the
Seller's ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement.

                  (c) Due Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance
of this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement by the Seller, and the
consummation by the Seller of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
and by the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, have been duly and validly authorized by
all necessary action on the part of the Seller and this Agreement and the Cross-
Guarantee Agreement and the other agreements and instruments executed or to be
executed in connection herewith have been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of the Seller.

                  (d) No Conflict. The Seller's execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, performance of the transactions
contemplated hereby and thereby, and fulfillment of the terms hereof and thereof
applicable to the Seller, do not contravene the Seller's limited partnership
agreement, conflict with or violate any Requirements of Law applicable to the
Seller, violate any provision of, or require any filing, registration, consent
or approval under, any Requirement of Law presently in effect having
applicability to the Seller, except for such filings, registrations, consents or
approvals as have already been obtained or made and are in full force and
effect, conflict with, result in any breach of any of the material terms and
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under, any indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or
other instrument to which the Seller is a party or by which it or its properties
or assets are bound, which conflict, violation or breach would have a material
adverse effect on the Seller's ability to perform its obligations hereunder or
under the



                                       8


<PAGE>   12
Cross-Guarantee Agreement or on the ownership by the Trust of the Receivables.

                  (e) No Proceedings Regarding the Seller. There are no
proceedings, injunctions, writs, restraining orders or other orders or
investigations pending or, to the best knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the
Seller, threatened against the Seller before any Governmental Authority (i)
asserting the illegality, invalidity or unenforceability, or seeking any
determination or ruling that would affect the legality, binding effect, validity
or enforceability of this Agreement, the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement or the Certificates, (ii) seeking to prevent the
issuance of the Certificates or the consummation of any of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement or the Certificates, (iii) seeking any determination or
ruling that is reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the
financial condition or results of operations of the Seller or the performance by
the Seller of its obligations under this Agreement or the Cross-Guarantee
Agreement or (iv) seeking to affect adversely the income or franchise tax
attributes of the Trust under the United States federal or State of Texas income
or franchise tax systems.

                  (f) Consents. No authorization, consent, license, order or
approval of or registration or declaration with any Person or Governmental
Authority is required to be obtained, effected or given by the Seller in
connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement or the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement by the Seller or the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby, except for (i) the filing of the financing statements or
other documents required to have been filed on or prior to the Transfer Date
pursuant to Section 2.01(a) of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, all of which
were so filed and are in full force and effect, and (ii) the filing from time to
time of any amendments, assignments or continuation statements which may become
applicable pursuant to Section 2.01(a) of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

                  (g) Liens. Each Receivable is owned by the Seller free and
clear of any Lien except as provided for herein; and no effective financing
statement or other instrument similar in effect covering any Receivable or
Collections with respect thereto is on file in any recording office except such
as may be filed in favor of the Purchaser and the Trustee and as otherwise
provided for in this Agreement and the Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
including Liens that will be terminated on or before the Transfer Date.

                  (h) Locations. The chief place of business and chief executive
office of the Seller, and the offices where the Seller keeps the originals of
its books, records and documents regarding the Receivables are located at the
address of the Seller specified in Section 8.09. During the four months prior to
the Transfer Date and prior to any Purchase Date, the chief place of business
and



                                       9


<PAGE>   13
chief executive office of the Seller, and the offices where the Seller keeps the
originals of its books, records and documents regarding the Receivables were/are
located at the address of the Seller specified in Section 8.09.

                  (i) Information. Each certificate, information, exhibit,
financial statement, document, book, record or report furnished by the Seller to
the Purchaser in connection with this Agreement and in connection with each
Receivable is accurate in all material respects as of its date and no such
document contains any material misstatement of fact.

                  (j) Enforceability. Each of this Agreement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of
the Seller enforceable against the Seller in accordance with its terms, except
as such enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights
generally, now or hereafter in effect, and except as such enforceability may be
limited by general principles of equity (whether considered in a suit at law or
in equity).

                  (k) Valid Transfers. This Agreement constitutes a valid sale,
transfer and assignment to the Purchaser of all right, title and interest of the
Seller in and to the Receivables, whether now existing or hereafter created
during the Effective Period, and the proceeds thereof.

                  (l)      Dell Collection Accounts.  Schedule I to the Pooling
and Servicing Agreement is a complete and accurate list of each Dell Collection
Account as of each Purchase Date.

                  (m) Solvency. The Seller is solvent and will not become
insolvent after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement
or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement; the Seller is currently repaying all of its
indebtedness as such indebtedness becomes due; and, after giving effect to the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement,
the Seller will have adequate capital to conduct its business as presently
conducted and as contemplated by this Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee
Agreement.

                  (n) Compliance. The Seller has complied, and will comply on
each Purchase Date, in all material respects with all Requirements of Law with
respect to it, its business and properties and all Receivables sold hereunder
and the Contracts related thereto. The Seller has maintained and will maintain
all applicable permits, certifications and licenses necessary in any material
respect with respect to its business and properties and all Receivables sold
hereunder and the Contracts related thereto. The Seller has filed or caused to
be filed on a timely basis all tax returns required by any Governmental
Authority.



                                       10


<PAGE>   14
                  (o)      No Rescission. Neither any Receivable sold hereunder
nor the related Contract has been satisfied, subordinated or rescinded or,
except as disclosed in writing to the Purchaser, amended in any manner and the
amounts billed under such Receivables have not been compromised, adjusted,
extended, satisfied, subordinated, rescinded or modified, except as permitted
under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

                  (p)      No Payment.  The Seller has no knowledge of any fact
which would lead it to expect that, when billed, any Receivable
sold hereunder would not be paid in accordance with its terms when
due.

                  (q)      No Insolvency Event.  No Insolvency Event has
occurred with respect to the Seller.

                  (r)      Fraudulent Conveyance.  The Seller is not entering
into the transactions contemplated hereby with the intent of hindering, delaying
or defrauding creditors.

                  (s)      Sale and Transfer. This Agreement creates a valid
sale, transfer and assignment to the Purchaser of, and the Purchaser is the
legal and beneficial owner of, all right, title and interest of the Seller in
and to the Receivables now existing and hereafter created during the term of
this Agreement and in the proceeds thereof.

                  (t)      Eligible Receivables. Each Receivable classified as
an "Eligible Receivable" by the Seller on its records or in any document or
report delivered hereunder satisfied, at the time of such classification, the
requirements of eligibility contained in the definition of Eligible Receivable
in the Pooling and Servicing Agreement; provided, however, that this
representation shall not cover Reconveyed Receivables.

                  (u)      Invoices.  The Seller has submitted all necessary
documents, if any, to each Obligor in connection with payments due with respect
to such Obligor's Receivables.

                  (v)      No Proceedings Regarding the Receivables.  There are
no proceedings, injunctions, writs, restraining orders or other orders or
investigations pending or, to the best knowledge of a Responsible Officer of the
Seller, threatened with respect to any Receivable or Contract before any
Governmental Authority asserting the illegality, invalidity or unenforceability,
or seeking any determination or ruling that would affect the legality, binding
effect, validity or enforceability of any Receivable or Contract.

                  (w) Tradenames. The legal name of the Seller is as set forth
on the signature page of this Agreement and the Seller has no tradenames,
fictitious names, assumed names or "doing business as" names.



                                       11


<PAGE>   15
                  (x) ERISA. No Plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA)
maintained by the Seller or any of its ERISA Affiliates (as defined in Section
414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code) has any accumulated
funding deficiency (within the meaning of Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of
the Internal Revenue Code), whether or not waived. The Seller and each ERISA
Affiliate of the Seller has timely made all contributions required to be made by
it to any Plan and Multiemployer Plan (as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of
ERISA) to which contributions are or have been required to be made since January
3, 1991 by the Seller or such ERISA Affiliate, and no event requiring notice to
the PBGC (as defined in Section 2613.2 of the ERISA Regulations) under Section
302(f) of ERISA has occurred and is continuing or could reasonably be expected
to occur with respect to any such Plan, in any case, that could reasonably be
expected to result, directly or indirectly, in any Lien being imposed on the
property of the Seller or the payment of any material amount to avoid such Lien.
No Plan Event (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to the Seller
or any of its ERISA Affiliates has occurred or could reasonably be expected to
occur that could reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in
any Lien being imposed on the property of the Seller or the payment of any
material amount to avoid such Lien.

                  (y)      Accounts.  All Receivables constitute "accounts",
"general intangibles" or "proceeds" thereof, as each such term is defined in the
UCC.

                  (z) Sale. For federal income tax, reporting and accounting
purposes, the Seller will treat the sale of each Receivable sold pursuant to
this Agreement as a sale, or absolute assignment, of all its right, title and
ownership interest in and to such Receivable to the Purchaser and the Purchaser
has not and will not account for or treat the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement in any other manner. This representation shall cease to be effective
if the Seller shall have received an Opinion of Counsel that a change in
applicable law occurring after the date hereof renders this representation
unlawful or inadvisable.

                  SECTION 4.02. Representations and Warranties of the Purchaser.
The Purchaser represents and warrants to the Seller as of the Transfer Date and
each Purchase Date that:

                  (a) Organization and Good Standing. The Purchaser is a limited
partnership duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Texas and has full power, authority and legal right to own its properties and
conduct its business as presently owned or conducted and as is proposed to be
conducted under this Agreement.

                  (b)      No Conflict.  The Purchaser's execution and delivery
of this Agreement, purchase of the Receivables pursuant to this Agreement and
fulfillment of the terms hereof applicable to the Purchaser, do not contravene
the Purchaser's limited partnership



                                       12


<PAGE>   16
agreement, conflict with or violate any Requirements of Law applicable to the
Purchaser, conflict with, result in a breach of any of the material terms or
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under, any indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or
other instrument to which the Purchaser is a party or by which it or its
properties or assets are bound. Neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement nor the purchase of the Receivables pursuant to this Agreement nor the
fulfillment of the terms hereof applicable to the Purchaser will result in the
creation of an adverse claim against the Purchaser or any assets of the
Purchaser except those created under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

                  (c) Due Authorization. The execution and delivery of this
Agreement by the Purchaser, and the purchase by the Purchaser of the
Receivables, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary action on
the part of the Purchaser and this Agreement and the other agreements and
instruments executed or to be executed in connection herewith have been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of the Purchaser.

                  (d) Enforceability. This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid
and binding obligation of the Purchaser enforceable against the Purchaser in
accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by
applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar
laws affecting creditors' rights generally, now or hereafter in effect, and
except as such enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity
(whether considered in a suit at law or in equity).

                  SECTION 4.03.     Obligations Unaffected.  The obligations
of the Seller to the Purchaser under this Agreement shall not be
affected by reason of any invalidity, illegality or irregularity of
any Receivable or the sale of any Receivable.



                                       13


<PAGE>   17
                                    ARTICLE V

                                    COVENANTS

                  SECTION 5.01.     Affirmative Covenants of the Seller.  The
Seller hereby covenants that, until the termination of the
Effective Period:

                  (a)      Compliance with Law.  The Seller will comply in all
material respects with all Requirements of Law applicable to it, its business
and properties and the Receivables.

                  (b)      Preservation of Existence. (i) Except as otherwise
permitted by subsection (ii) of this Section 5.01(b), the Seller will preserve
and maintain its existence, rights, franchises and privileges in the State of
Texas, and qualify and remain qualified in each jurisdiction where the failure
to maintain such qualification would materially and adversely affect (A) the
interests of the Purchaser hereunder or in the Receivables, (B) the
collectibility of any Receivable or (C) the ability of the Seller to perform its
obligations hereunder in any material respects and (ii) the Seller shall not
consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey or transfer its
properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person unless: (1)
Dell is the direct or indirect owner of all of the issued and outstanding shares
of the capital stock or partnership interests or other equity interests of the
Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Seller is merged or the
Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the properties and assets of the
Seller substantially as an entirety; (2) the Person formed by such consolidation
or into which the Seller is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or
transfer the properties and assets of the Seller substantially as an entirety
shall be, if the Seller is not the surviving entity, a corporation, limited
partnership or limited liability company organized and existing under the laws
of the United States of America or any State or the District of Columbia, and
such corporation, limited partnership or limited liability company shall have
expressly assumed, by an agreement supplemental hereto, executed and delivered
to the Purchaser, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser, the
performance of every covenant and obligation of the Seller hereunder and under
the other Transaction Documents; (3) the Seller shall have delivered to the
Purchaser an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel each in form
reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser and stating that such consolidation,
merger, conveyance or transfer complies with this Section 5.01(b) and (4) the
Rating Agency Condition shall be satisfied.

                  (c)      Audits. At any time and from time to time during the
Seller's regular business hours and at the Seller's expense, on reasonable prior
notice and for a purpose reasonably related to this Agreement, the Seller shall,
in response to any reasonable request of the Purchaser, permit the Purchaser, or
its agents or representatives, (i) to examine and make copies of and abstracts



                                       14


<PAGE>   18
from all books, records and documents (including, without limitation, computer
tapes, microfiche and disks) in the possession or under the control of the
Seller relating to the Receivables and the related Contracts and (ii) to visit
the offices and properties of the Seller for the purpose of examining such
materials and to discuss matters relating to the Receivables or the Seller's
performance hereunder with any of the officers or (after consultation with a
Responsible Officer) employees of the Seller having knowledge thereof; provided,
however, that, so long as no Termination Event, Partial Amortization Period or
Cure Period shall have occurred and be continuing, the Purchaser shall use its
best efforts to coordinate the exercise of its rights under this Section 5.01(c)
with the exercise of like rights of the Trustee and the Program Agent, and the
rights of the Purchaser under this Section 5.01(c) shall be at the Seller's
expense only twice in any twelve-month period.

                  (d)      Keeping of Records and Books of Account.  The Seller
will maintain and implement administrative and operating procedures (including,
without limitation, the ability to recreate records evidencing the Receivables
in the event of the destruction of the originals thereof), and keep and maintain
all documents, books, records and other information reasonably necessary or
advisable for the collection of the Receivables (including, without limitation,
records adequate to permit the daily identification of each new Receivable and
all Collections of and adjustments to each existing Receivable).

                  (e)      Performance and Compliance with Receivables. The
Seller will, at its expense, timely and fully perform and comply with all
provisions, covenants and other promises required to be observed by it
hereunder, except where the failure to so perform or comply would not have a
material adverse effect on the collectibility of the Receivables or the Seller's
ability to perform in all material respects its obligations hereunder.

                  (f)      Location of Records. The Seller will keep its chief
place of business and chief executive office and the office where it keeps the
books, records and documents regarding the Receivables, at the address of the
Seller specified in Section 8.09.

                  (g)      Credit Policy and Procedures Manual.  The Seller will
comply in all material respects with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual in
regard to the Receivables and the related Contracts.

                  (h)      Collections.  The Seller will instruct all Obligors
to cause all Collections of Receivables to be deposited directly to Dell
Collection Accounts.

                  (i)      Protection of Purchaser's Interest in Receivables.



                                       15


<PAGE>   19
                  (i) The Seller will not create, permit or suffer to exist, and
         will take such actions as are necessary to remove, any Lien, claim or
         right in, to or on the Receivables conveyed hereunder, other than the
         Liens created hereby and by the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, and
         will defend the right, title and interest of the Purchaser and the
         Trustee in and to the Receivables conveyed hereunder against any Liens
         thereon or the claims and demands of all persons whomsoever based on
         breaches of representations and warranties in this Agreement.

                  (ii) The Seller will advise the Purchaser and the Trustee
         promptly, in reasonable detail, (A) of any Lien or claim asserted
         against any of the Receivables, other than the Liens created hereby and
         by the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, (B) of the occurrence of any
         breach by the Seller of any of its representations, warranties and
         covenants contained herein and (C) of the occurrence of any other event
         which in the case of clauses (A) or (B) would have a material adverse
         effect on the value of the Receivables.

                 (iii) The Seller shall execute and file such continuation
         statements and any other documents reasonably requested by the
         Purchaser or which may be required by law to fully preserve and protect
         the interests of the Purchaser hereunder and of the Trustee under the
         Pooling and Servicing Agreement in and to the Receivables conveyed
         hereby.

                  (iv) The Seller will not, without providing 45 days' prior
         written notice to the Purchaser and the Trustee and without filing such
         amendments to any previously filed financing statements as the
         Purchaser or the Trustee may reasonably require, (i) change the
         location of its chief executive office or the location of the office
         where the principal records relating to the Receivables are kept or
         (ii) change its name, identity or business structure in any manner
         which would, could or might make any financing statement or
         continuation statement filed by the Seller in accordance with this
         Agreement "seriously misleading" with the meaning of Section 9-402(7)
         of any applicable enactment of the UCC.

                   (v) The Seller shall deliver to the Purchaser and the Trustee
         on or before April 30 of each year, beginning with April 30, 1996, an
         Opinion of Counsel to the Seller (who may be counsel employed by the
         Seller or an Affiliate of the Seller), dated as of a date subsequent to
         the end of the immediately preceding fiscal year, substantially to the
         effect that, in the opinion of such counsel, either (A) such action has
         been taken with respect to the recording, registering, filing,
         re-recording, re-registering and re-filing of financing statements,
         continuation statements or other instructions or documents as is
         necessary to continue the perfection of the interests of the Purchaser
         and the Trustee in and to the Receivables conveyed hereby (to the same
         extent as such interest was perfected on the Transfer Date with



                                       16


<PAGE>   20
         respect to the Receivables then owned by the Purchaser) and reciting
         the details of such action or referring to prior Opinions of Counsel in
         which such details are given or (B) no such action is necessary to
         continue the perfection of such interests.

                  (j) Separate Legal Existence. The Seller acknowledges that the
Purchaser, the Trustee and the Certificateholders are entering into the
agreements and consummating the transactions contemplated hereby and by the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement in reliance on the identity of the Purchaser as
a separate legal entity, and the rights and interests of such Persons would be
prejudiced if this reliance were undermined. Accordingly, the Seller will take
such steps as are necessary and within its control to maintain the Purchaser's
separate legal existence and identity and to make it apparent to third parties
that the Purchaser is an entity with assets and liabilities distinct from those
of the Seller or any other subsidiary or Affiliate of the Seller. Such steps
will include the following:

                  (i)      The Seller will conduct its business solely in its
         own legal name, and in such a separate manner so as not to
         mislead others with which it is dealing.

                 (ii)      The Seller will maintain its own separate business
         records, will maintain its own office with its own telephone number and
         will observe all legal formalities in formation and management.

                (iii)      All financial statements of the Seller and Dell will
         contain notes clearly indicating that all of the Purchaser's assets are
         owned by the Purchaser, which is a separate legal entity.

                 (iv)      The Seller will maintain arm's-length relationships
         with the Purchaser. Any transaction between the Purchaser and the
         Seller or any of its subsidiaries will, in the reasonable judgement of
         the Seller, be fair and equitable to the Purchaser and on terms which
         are at least as favorable as could be obtained from a Person which is
         not an Affiliate.

                  (v)      The Seller will not agree to be, or hold itself out
         to be, responsible for the debts of the Purchaser or the decisions or
         actions with respect to the daily business and affairs of the
         Purchaser, except that (A) pursuant to any Enhancement Agreement, the
         Seller may indemnify any Enhancement Provider (and related Persons)
         against losses caused by actions or omissions of the Seller and (B) the
         Seller may guarantee the Purchaser's obligations to pay any premiums or
         commitment fees to an Enhancement Provider.

                 (vi)      The Seller will not cause the Purchaser to be named,
         directly or indirectly, as a direct or contingent beneficiary or loss
         payee on any insurance policy with respect to any loss



                                       17


<PAGE>   21
         relating to the property of the Seller or any other subsidiary
         or Affiliate of the Seller.

                  (k) Repurchase Obligation. In the event of any breach of the
representation and warranty set forth in Section 4.01(t), if the Purchaser shall
be obligated to repurchase Reconveyed Receivables pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, the Seller shall repurchase from the
Purchaser such Reconveyed Receivables and shall pay to the Purchaser on the
Business Day preceding the day on which such repurchase of Reconveyed
Receivables is to be made an amount equal to the purchase price for the
Reconveyed Receivables paid by the Purchaser pursuant to the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement, such payment, at the option of the Purchaser, to be made
either in cash or through a reduction of the amount due under the Subordinated
Note. The obligation of the Seller to repurchase the Reconveyed Receivables
pursuant to this Section 5.01(k) shall constitute the sole remedy against the
Seller respecting an event of the type specified in the first sentence of this
paragraph available to the Purchaser or the Investor Certificateholders (or the
Trustee on behalf of the Investor Certificateholders) or any other Indemnified
Party. Reconveyed Receivables which are repurchased pursuant to Section 2.04 of
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, together with any Collections thereon,
shall be promptly removed from the Trust.

                  SECTION 5.02.     Reporting Requirements of the Seller.  The
Seller hereby covenants that, until the termination of the
Effective Period:

                  (a) Termination Events. The Seller shall (i) within one
Business Day after a Responsible Officer of the Seller obtains knowledge of the
occurrence of any Termination Event or event which, with the giving of notice or
lapse of time or both, would constitute a Termination Event, notify (either
orally or in writing) the Purchaser of such occurrence; and (ii) as soon as
possible and in any event within three Business Days after a Responsible Officer
of the Seller obtains knowledge of the occurrence of any Termination Event or
event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would
constitute a Termination Event, deliver to the Purchaser a statement of a
Responsible Officer of the Seller setting forth details of such Termination
Event or such event and the action that the Seller has taken and proposes to
take with respect thereto.

                  (b) Litigation. As soon as possible and in any event within 10
Business Days after a Responsible Officer of the Seller obtains knowledge
thereof, the Seller shall notify the Purchaser of any litigation, investigation
or proceeding which could reasonably be expected to impair in any material
respect the ability of the Seller to perform its obligations under this
Agreement; and

                  (c) Other Information.  The Seller shall promptly deliver to
the Purchaser such other information, documents, records or reports regarding
the Receivables as the Purchaser may from time



                                       18


<PAGE>   22
to time reasonably request in order to protect the Purchaser's interests under
or as contemplated by this Agreement.

                  SECTION 5.03.     Negative Covenants of the Seller.  The
Seller hereby covenants that, until the termination of the
Effective Period, it will not:

                  (a) Sales, Liens, Etc. Except as otherwise contemplated
herein, or pursuant to or as contemplated by the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement, (i) sell, assign (by operation of law or otherwise) or otherwise
dispose of, or create or suffer to exist any Lien upon or with respect to, any
Receivable or upon or with respect to any account in the name of the Trustee for
the benefit of the Certificateholders or upon or with respect to any Dell
Collection Account to which any Collections of any Receivables are sent, or (ii)
assign any right to receive income in respect thereof.

                  (b) Extension or Amendment of Receivables. Except as
consistent with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual or as otherwise
permitted under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, (i) extend, amend or
otherwise modify the terms of any Receivable, (ii) amend, modify or waive any
payment term or condition of any invoice related thereto, which extension,
amendment, modification or waiver would impair the collectibility or delay the
payment of any Receivable in a manner inconsistent with the Credit Policy and
Procedures Manual, or (iii) rescind or cancel any Receivable except as ordered
by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority.

                  (c) Change in Business or Credit Policy and Procedures Manual.
Make any change in the character of its business or in the Credit Policy and
Procedures Manual, which change would, in either case, materially impair the
collectibility of the Receivables, except as permitted under the terms of the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement.

                  (d) Change in Dell Collection Account Banks.  Except as
permitted under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, add or terminate any bank
as a Dell Collection Account Bank from those listed in Schedule I attached to
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, or make any change in its instructions to
Obligors regarding payments to be made to any Dell Collection Account Bank,
unless the Purchaser and the Trustee shall have received notice of such
addition, termination or change and executed copies of Dell Collection Account
Letters to each new Dell Collection Account Bank.

                  (e) Change in Name, Etc. Make any change to its name or
structure, or use any tradenames, fictitious names, assumed names or "doing
business as" names, unless, in the case of such name change or use and prior to
the effective date thereof, the Seller delivers to the Purchaser such financing
statements or amendments to financing statements (Form UCC-1 and UCC-3) executed
by the



                                       19


<PAGE>   23
Seller which the Purchaser may request to reflect such name change or use,
together with such other documents and instruments that the Purchaser may
reasonably request in connection therewith.

                  (f) Deposits to Dell Collection Accounts.  Deposit or
otherwise credit, or cause or permit to be so deposited or credited, to any Dell
Collection Account cash or cash proceeds other than Collections of Receivables.

                  (g) No Actions Against Obligors.  Except in accordance with
the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual and the Pooling and Servicing Agreement,
commence or settle any legal action to enforce collection of any Receivable.

                  (h) No Bankruptcy Filing Against the Purchaser or the Trust.
Commence, institute or cause to be commenced or instituted any bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other
proceedings under any United States federal or state bankruptcy or similar law
against the Purchaser or the Trust.

                  (i) No Claims Against the Receivables.  Claim any credit on,
or make any deduction from, the principal or interest payable in respect of the
Certificates by reason of the payment of any taxes levied or assessed upon any
part of the Receivables.

                  (j) Locations of Subsidiaries.  Permit any of the Originators
to have or maintain its jurisdiction of organization or principal place of
business in any of the States of Colorado, Kansas, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Utah or
Wyoming.

                  (k) Subordinated Note.  Transfer or pledge the Subordinated
Note to any Person.

                  SECTION 5.04. Affirmative Mutual Covenant. The Purchaser and
Seller shall record each Purchase as a purchase and sale, respectively, on its
books and records and reflect each Purchase in its financial statements as a
purchase and sale, respectively.

                  SECTION 5.05. Grant of Security Interest. To secure all
obligations of the Seller arising in connection with this Agreement, and each
other agreement entered into in connection with this Agreement, whether now or
hereafter existing, due or to become due, direct or indirect, or absolute or
contingent, including, without limitation, Indemnified Amounts, payments on
account of Collections received or deemed to be received, fees and any other
amounts due the Purchaser hereunder, the Seller hereby assigns and grants to
Purchaser a first priority security interest in all of the Seller's right, title
and interest now or hereafter existing in, to and under all Receivables and
Collections with regard thereto, and all books, records and computer files
relating thereto.



                                       20


<PAGE>   24
                                   ARTICLE VI

                              EVENTS OF TERMINATION

                  SECTION 6.01.     Termination.  If any of the following
events (each, a "Termination Event") shall have occurred:

                  (a) any failure by the Seller to make any payment, transfer or
deposit required to be paid, effected or made by it hereunder on or before the
date occurring two Business Days after the date such payment, transfer or
deposit is required to be made hereunder; or

                  (b) any representation, warranty, certification or written
statement made or deemed made by the Seller under or in connection with this
Agreement or in any statement, record, certificate, financial statement or other
document delivered pursuant hereto or in connection herewith shall prove to have
been incorrect in any material respect on or as of the date made or deemed made
which has a material adverse effect on the Certificateholders and continues
unremedied for 20 days (or, with respect to the representations and warranties
made in Sections 4.01(g) and 4.01(k), continues unremedied for five days) after
the earlier of (i) the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring
the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Seller by the Purchaser
and (ii) the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to
be remedied, shall have been given to the Seller and the Trustee by
Certificateholders of any outstanding Series evidencing not less than 20% of the
Invested Amount for such Series; or

                  (c) the Seller shall fail to observe or perform in any
material respect any covenant or agreement applicable to it contained herein
(other than as specified in clause (a) or (b) above) which has a material
adverse effect on the Certificate- holders and continues unremedied for 20 days
(or with respect to the covenants contained in Sections 5.03(a) and 5.03(d)
shall continue for five days) after the earlier of (i) the date on which written
notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given
to the Seller by the Purchaser and (ii) the date on which written notice of such
failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Seller
and the Trustee by Certificateholders of any outstanding Series evidencing not
less than 20% of the Invested Amount for such Series; or

                  (d) any Receivables transferred hereunder which constitute
more than 1% of the aggregate amount of Eligible Receivables shall for any
reason cease to be the valid and perfected subject of the security interest
created by this Agreement; or any Receivables transferred hereunder which
constitute more than 1% of the aggregate amount of Eligible Receivables shall
cease to be free and clear of any Lien except as provided for herein; or



                                       21


<PAGE>   25
                  (e) an Insolvency Event shall occur with respect to the Seller
or the Purchaser; provided, however, that for purposes of this Section 6.01, the
definition of "Insolvency Event" shall be construed without giving effect to the
60-day grace period in clause (a) thereof (except with respect to any Controlled
Affiliate that is not a party to any Transaction Document); or

                  (f) the Internal Revenue Service shall file notice of a lien
pursuant to Section 6323 of the Internal Revenue Code with regard to any of the
Receivables and such lien shall not have been (x) stayed or released within 30
days or, if stayed, such lien shall not have been released within 60 days; or
(y) the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation shall file notice of a lien
pursuant to Section 4068 of ERISA with regard to any of the Receivables and such
filing shall not be stayed or rescinded within 15; or

                  (g) there shall have occurred an Early Amortization Event
under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement;

then, if any of the events set forth in paragraphs (a), (d), (e), (f) or (g)
above shall have occurred, a "Termination Event" shall occur without any notice,
demand, protest or other requirement of any kind immediately upon the occurrence
of such event and, if any of the events set forth in paragraphs (b) or (c) above
shall have occurred, the Purchaser may, by notice to the Seller, declare that a
"Termination Event" shall occur as of the date set forth in such notice. Upon
the occurrence of a Termination Event, the Effective Period shall terminate (any
termination of the Effective Period pursuant to this Section 6.01 is herein
referred to as an "Early Termination"). Upon any Early Termination the Purchaser
shall have, in addition to any rights and remedies under this Agreement, all
other rights and remedies with respect to the Receivables provided after default
under the UCC of the applicable jurisdiction and under other applicable laws,
which rights and remedies shall be cumulative.

                  A Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series may, on
behalf of all Certificateholders, waive any default by the Seller in the
performance of its obligations hereunder and its consequences, except (1) the
failure to make any distributions or payments required to be made to the
Purchaser or to make any required deposits of any amounts to be so distributed
or paid can be waived only (a) with respect to Indemnified Amounts, with the
consent of the relevant Indemnified Party or (b) with respect to other amounts,
with unanimous consent of all Certificateholders of all outstanding Series and
(2) defaults arising from the events set forth in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g).
No such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any
right consequent thereon except to the extent expressly so waived.



                                       22


<PAGE>   26
                                   ARTICLE VII

                                 INDEMNIFICATION

                  SECTION 7.01. Indemnification. (a) Without limiting any other
rights which the Purchaser may have hereunder or under any applicable law, the
Seller hereby agrees to indemnify the Purchaser and the Trustee and their
respective assignees (which shall not be deemed to include any of the
Certificateholders as such) and their respective partners, officers, directors,
employees and Affiliates (collectively, the "Indemnified Parties") from and
against any and all damages, losses, liabilities and related costs and expenses
actually incurred (excluding consequential damages and lost profits), including
reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements (all of the foregoing being
collectively referred to as "Indemnified Amounts"), awarded against or incurred
by any of them arising out of or resulting from this Agreement, the activities
of the Seller in connection herewith or in respect of any Receivable (excluding
however (A) Indemnified Amounts resulting from gross negligence or willful
misconduct on the part of the Indemnified Party (other than the Purchaser) to
which such Indemnified Amount would otherwise be due, (B) losses in respect of
Receivables to the extent reimbursement therefor would constitute credit
recourse to the Seller for nonpayment of any Receivable by the related Obligor,
(C) any income or franchise or similar taxes (or any interest or penalties with
respect thereto) incurred by such Indemnified Party arising out of or as a
result of this Agreement or in respect of any Receivable and (D) Indemnified
Amounts resulting from the acts or omissions of the Servicer (unless the
Servicer is an Affiliate of Dell)), to the extent caused by:

                  (i) reliance on any representation, warranty or covenant made
         or statement made or deemed made by the Seller (or any of its
         Responsible Officers) under or in connection with this Agreement, which
         shall have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed
         made or which the Seller shall have failed to perform;

                 (ii) the failure by the Seller to comply with this Agreement or
         any Requirement of Law with respect to any Receivable or the related
         Contract; or the failure of any Receivable or the related Contract to
         conform to this Agreement or any such Requirement of Law;

                (iii) the existence of any dispute, claim, offset or defense
         (other than discharge in bankruptcy of the Obligor) of the Obligor to
         the payment of any Receivable (including, without limitation, a defense
         based on such Receivable or the related Contract not being a legal,
         valid and binding obligation of such Obligor enforceable against it in
         accordance with its terms), or of any other claim resulting from the
         sale of the products or services related to such



                                       23


<PAGE>   27
         Receivable or from the furnishing or failure to furnish such
         products or services;

                  (iv)   the failure to vest in the Purchaser absolute ownership
         of the Receivables free and clear of any Lien;

                  (v)    the failure of the Seller to have filed, or any delay
         in filing, any financing statements or other similar instruments or
         documents under the UCC of any applicable jurisdiction or other
         applicable laws that are necessary for perfection or priority of the
         ownership and security interests created by this Agreement;

                  (vi)   any commingling by the Seller of Collections with other
         funds of the Seller or any Affiliate;

                  (vii)  any investigation, litigation or proceeding related to
         this Agreement or the use of proceeds of Purchases or the ownership of
         or security interest in Receivables or Collections with respect
         thereto, or in respect of any Contract related thereto, other than any
         investigation, litigation or proceeding relating to such Indemnified
         Party's affairs which includes matters or transactions in addition to
         those contemplated by the Transaction Documents;

                  (viii) any products liability or other claim arising out of or
         in connection with products or services which are the subject of any
         Contract;

                  (ix)   any reduction in the Outstanding Balance of a
         Receivable (other than a Reconveyed Receivable) by reason of any
         defective, rejected, returned, repossessed or foreclosed merchandise or
         services or any cash discount or other adjustment made by the Seller;

                  (x)    any breach by the Seller of any obligation under any
         Receivable or any Contract;

                  (xi)   any failure of the Seller to perform its duties or
         obligations in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; or

                 (xii)   any tax (other than any income or franchise or similar
         tax, or any interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed by
         reason of ownership of the Receivables by the Purchaser.

                  (b)    Any Indemnified Amounts due hereunder shall be payable
within ten Business Days of submission of a claim by the Indemnified Party.

                  (c)    Each Indemnified Party will use its best efforts to
notify the Seller in advance of making any claim under this Section 7.01.



                                       24


<PAGE>   28
                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

                  SECTION 8.01. Further Assurances. (a) The Seller agrees to do
and perform, from time to time, any and all acts and to execute and deliver to
the Purchaser or the Trustee any and all further assignments, agreements, powers
and instruments reasonably required or requested by the Purchaser more fully to
effect the purposes of this Agreement and the sales of the Receivables
hereunder, including, without limitation, the execution of any financing
statements or continuation statements relating to the Receivables for filing
under the provisions of the UCC, or any similar law, of any applicable
jurisdiction. The Seller will mark its computer files in a manner reasonably
calculated to indicate that the Receivables have been sold to the Purchaser.

                  (b) The Purchaser agrees to do such further acts and things
and to execute and deliver to the Seller or the Trustee such additional
assignments, agreements, powers and instruments as are reasonably required by
the Seller to carry into effect the purposes of this Agreement or to better
assure and confirm unto the Seller or the Trustee its rights, powers and
remedies hereunder.

                  SECTION 8.02. Payments. Each payment to be made by either of
the Purchaser or the Seller hereunder shall be made on the required payment
date, or on the next succeeding Business Day if the required payment date is not
a Business Day, in lawful money of the United States and in immediately
available funds at the office of the payee set forth in Section 8.09 below or to
such other office as may be specified by either party in a written notice to the
other party hereto.

                  SECTION 8.03.     Costs, Expenses and Taxes.  (a)  In addition
to the rights of indemnification granted to the Purchaser pursuant to Article
VII hereof, the Seller agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the
Purchaser in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of all
documents to be delivered subsequent to the Transfer Date pursuant to this
Agreement, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket
expenses of counsel for the Purchaser with respect thereto and with respect to
advising the Purchaser as to its rights and remedies under this Agreement, and
the Seller agrees to pay all costs and expenses of the Purchaser, if any
(including reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the
enforcement of this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder
excluding, however, any costs of enforcement or collection of any Receivables.

                  (b) In addition, the Seller agrees to pay any and all stamp
and other taxes (other than any income or franchise or similar taxes, or any
interest or penalties with respect thereto) and fees payable or determined to be
payable in connection with the execution, delivery, filing and recording of this
Agreement and



                                       25


<PAGE>   29
any documents to be delivered hereunder, and the Seller agrees to indemnify the
Purchaser against any liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay in
paying or omission to pay such taxes and fees.

                  SECTION 8.04.     Binding Effect; Assignability.  (a)  This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Seller and the
Purchaser and their respective successors (whether by merger, consolidation or
otherwise) and assigns.  Except as otherwise permitted herein, the Seller agrees
that it will not assign or transfer all or any portion of its rights or
obligations hereunder to any Person (other than Dell or any of its Controlled
Affiliates) without the prior written consent of the Purchaser and a Majority in
Interest of each outstanding Series.  In connection with any sale or assignment
by the Purchaser of all or a portion of the Receivables, the buyer or assignee,
as the case may be, shall, to the extent of its purchase or assignment, have all
rights of the Purchaser under this Agreement(as if such buyer or assignee, as
the case may be, were the Purchaser hereunder) except to the extent specifically
provided in the agreement between the Purchaser and such buyer or assignee.

                  (b) The Seller acknowledges that the Purchaser shall assign to
the Trust, as collateral security for the Purchaser's obligations under the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement, all of the Purchaser's rights, remedies, powers
and privileges hereunder (including, without limitation, the right to give any
notice which the Purchaser may provide to the Seller hereunder), provided that
the Purchaser shall not assign or delegate any of its duties or obligations
hereunder to the Trust.

                  (c) This Agreement shall create and constitute the continuing
obligations of the parties hereto in accordance with its terms, and shall remain
in full force and effect until such time, after the last Termination Date of any
Series; provided, however, that rights and remedies with respect to any breach
of any representation and warranty made by the Seller pursuant to Article IV and
the provisions of Article VII and Sections 5.03(h), 8.03 and 8.13 shall be
continuing and shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

                  SECTION 8.05.     Governing Law, Jurisdiction, Consent to
Service of Process.

                  (a) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE RIGHTS AND
DUTIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ITS
CONFLICT OF LAW PROVISIONS, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE PERFECTION OF THE
INTERESTS OF THE PURCHASER IN THE RECEIVABLES IS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF A
JURISDICTION OTHER THAN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

                  (b) Jurisdiction.  Each of the parties hereto hereby
irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive



                                       26


<PAGE>   30
jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States
of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof,
in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, and
each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees
that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and
determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, such
federal court and (ii) waives the defense of an inconvenient forum. Each of the
parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding
shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the
judgment or in any other manner provided by law.

                  (c) Consent to Service of Process. Each party to this
Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery,
certified mail, postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Agreement
will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any
other manner permitted by law.

                  (d) Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party to this Agreement waives
any right to a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to enforce or defend
any rights under or relating to this Agreement, any other Transaction Document,
the Fee Letter or any amendment, instrument, document or agreement delivered or
which may in the future be delivered in connection herewith or therewith or
arising from any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether
verbal of written), actions of any of the parties hereto or any other
relationship existing in connection with this Agreement or any other Transaction
Document or the Fee Letter, and agrees that any such action or proceeding shall
be tried before a court and not before a jury.

                  SECTION 8.06.     No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.  No failure
to exercise and no delay in exercising, on the part of the Purchaser, any right,
remedy, power or privilege hereunder, shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor
shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege
hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any
other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and
privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exhaustive of any rights,
remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.

                  SECTION 8.07.     Amendment. (a) This Agreement may be amended
from time to time by the Seller and the Purchaser without the consent of any of
the Investor Certificateholders (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to correct or
supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other
provision herein or (iii) to add any other provisions with respect to matters or
questions arising under this Agreement which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement; provided that any amendment pursuant to this
clause (a) shall not, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel, adversely affect in
any material respect the interests of



                                       27


<PAGE>   31
any Investor Certificateholders.  Notice of any amendment entered into pursuant
to this clause (a) shall be given to the Rating Agencies.

                  (b) This Agreement may be amended from time to time by the
Seller and the Purchaser, so long as the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied,
with the consent of a Majority in Interest of each adversely affected Series for
the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating
any of the provisions of this Agreement or of modifying in any manner the rights
of the Certificateholders. The Trustee may request an Officer's Certificate and
Opinion of Counsel with respect to an amendment entered into pursuant to this
clause (b) concerning compliance with the requirements of this Agreement. Any
amendment to be effected pursuant to this paragraph shall be deemed to adversely
affect all outstanding Series, other than any Series with respect to which such
action shall not, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel (which counsel shall not
be an employee of, or counsel for, Dell, the Seller or the Purchaser), addressed
and delivered to the Trustee, adversely affect the interests of any Investor
Certificateholder of such Series.

                  SECTION 8.08. Severability. If any provision hereof is deemed
void or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such voiding or unenforceability
shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other
jurisdiction or any other provision hereof in such or any other jurisdiction.

                  SECTION 8.09. Notices. All notices and other communications
provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing
(including telex and facsimile communication) and shall be personally delivered
or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, or overnight courier or facsimile,
to the intended party at the address or facsimile number of such party set forth
below or at such other address or facsimile number as shall be designated by
such party in a written notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices and
communications shall be effective (a) if personally delivered, when received,
(b) if sent by certified mail, four Business Days after having been deposited in
the mail, postage prepaid, (c) if sent by overnight courier, two Business Days
after having been given to such courier, unless sooner received by the addressee
and (d) if transmitted by facsimile, when sent, upon receipt confirmed by
telephone or electronic means. Notices and communications sent hereunder on a
day that is not a Business Day shall be deemed to have been sent on the
following Business Day.



                                       28


<PAGE>   32
                  (a)      If to the Seller,

                           Dell Direct Sales L.P.
                           2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
                           Austin, Texas  78758
                           Tel: (512) 728-3343
                           Fax: (512) 728-0043
                           Attn: Treasurer

                  (b)      If to the Purchaser,

                           Dell Receivables L.P.
                           2112 Kramer Lane
                           Austin, Texas  78758
                           Tel: (512) 728-5829
                           Fax: (512) 728-5986
                           Attn: Assistant Treasurer

                  SECTION 8.10. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in
any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original,
and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.

                  SECTION 8.11. Construction of Agreement as Security Agreement.
It is the intent of the parties that the transactions contemplated herein
constitute sales of the Receivables to the Purchaser. If, however, such
transactions are deemed to be loans, (a) the Seller hereby grants to the
Purchaser a first priority security interest in all of the Seller's right, title
and interest in and to the Receivables now existing and hereafter created, all
monies due or to become due and all amounts and other proceeds received with
respect thereto, to secure all of the Seller's obligations hereunder, and (b)
this Agreement shall constitute a security agreement under applicable law.

                  SECTION 8.12. Termination. This Agreement will terminate on
the last Termination Date specified in any Series Supplement; provided, however,
that the representations, warranties and remedies offered by or made available
against the Seller, the indemnities of the Seller to the Indemnified Parties set
forth in this Agreement shall survive such termination, and provided, further,
that the Purchaser shall remain entitled to receive any collections on
Receivables sold hereunder which have become Defaulted Receivables after it
shall have completed its collection efforts in respect thereof.

                  SECTION 8.13.     Third-Party Beneficiary.  The Indemnified
Parties are third-party beneficiaries of all provisions of this
Agreement and are entitled to enforce the provisions of Section
7.01 of this Agreement to the extent any Indemnified Amounts are
due such parties.



                                       29


<PAGE>   33
                  SECTION 8.14. The Seller's Obligations. It is expressly agreed
that, anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Seller shall be obligated to perform all of its obligations under the
Receivables to the same extent as if the Purchaser had no interest therein and
the Purchaser shall have no obligations or liability under Receivables to any
Obligor thereunder by reason of or arising out of this Agreement, nor shall the
Purchaser be required or obligated in any manner to perform or fulfill any of
the obligations of the Seller under or pursuant to any Receivable.



                                       30


<PAGE>   34
                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Receivables Purchase Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers
thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.

                                             DELL DIRECT SALES L.P.,
                                                as Seller
                                                by DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                                as its general partner

                                             By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 ------------------------------
                                                 Name:  Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 Title: Chief Financial Officer

                                             DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.,
                                               as Purchaser
                                               by DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                               as its general partner

                                             By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 ----------------------
                                                 Name:  Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 Title: President


<PAGE>   35
   
    
   
                                   EXHIBITS
    
                                      
   
           The following Exhibit has been omitted from this filing:
    
                                      
   
                        Exhibit A -- Subordinated Note
    

   
The registrant hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of such
Exhibit to the Commission upon request. The executed version of this Exhibit
appears as Exhibit 10.21 to this Report.
    


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.20
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>SUBORDINATED NOTE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.20
    

                              DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.

                                SUBORDINATED NOTE

Due:  December 31, 2014                                                    No. 1


         DELL RECEIVABLES L.P. (the "Issuer"), for value received, hereby
promises to pay to DELL MARKETING L.P. (the "Holder"), or its registered
assigns, at its address for payments set forth in Section 8.09 of the
Receivables Purchase Agreement hereinafter referred to, all principal sums owing
from time to time under Section 2.02 of the Receivables Purchase Agreement, upon
the earliest to occur of (i) December 31, 2014, (ii) the date upon which the
aggregate Invested Amount for each series is zero (the "Stated Maturity"),
unless earlier prepaid pursuant to the provisions for repayment referred to
herein, and (iii) any date agreed to by the Issuer and the Holder, and to pay
interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
in each calendar year) on the unpaid principal sum from the date such principal
sum is advanced, such interest being payable on (i) November 30, 1995 and the
last day of each month thereafter and (ii) on the earlier of (1) the date of
prepayment and (2) Stated Maturity at a rate per annum equal to the one-month
London Interbank Offered Rate plus 0.75%, as published in The Wall Street
Journal on the last Business Day of the preceding month, until the principal
hereof is paid in full. The Holder shall enter on Schedule A information
reflecting the date and amount of each advance and the amount of any payments
made hereon. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the
principal sum hereof and all accrued interest thereon shall not exceed forty
percent (40%) of the excess of the Net Receivables Balance over the Trust
Invested Amount at any given time.

         Payments of the principal of and interest on this Subordinated Note
(this "Note") will be made in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts by check mailed to, or wire transfer in federal funds to the
account of, the Holder as directed by the Holder. If any payment on this Note
shall remain unpaid on the due date thereof, the same shall thereafter be
payable with interest thereon (to the extent permitted by law) at the Class A
Certificate Rate, from such due date to the date of payment thereof.

         This Note is issued under the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as
of November 21, 1995, between the Issuer and the Holder (the "Receivables
Purchase Agreement"). This Note represents all or a portion of the Purchase
Price for Receivables
<PAGE>   2
purchased by the Issuer pursuant to the terms of the Receivables Purchase
Agreement. Each capitalized term used herein which is defined in the Receivables
Purchase Agreement or the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November
21, 1995, among the Issuer, as Transferor, Dell USA L.P., as Servicer and
Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (the "Pooling and
Servicing Agreement") shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Receivables
Purchase Agreement or the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, as the case may be.

         This Note may be prepaid in whole or in part at the option of the
Issuer at any time without a premium.

         The payment of this Note is hereby expressly subordinated in right of
payment to the payment and performance of the "Senior Debt" of the Issuer, which
is any indebtedness in respect of borrowed money as evidenced by bonds, notes,
debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit and any obligations of
the Issuer under the Pooling and Service Agreement, the Receivables Purchase
Agreement and any Supplement ("Indebtedness") of the Issuer, and all renewals,
extensions, refinancings or refundings thereof, except any such Indebtedness
that expressly provides that it is not senior or superior in right of payment
hereto, to the extent and in the manner set forth in this paragraph:

         (a) In the event of any dissolution, winding up, liquidation,
     readjustment, reorganization or other similar event relating to the Issuer,
     whether voluntary or involuntary, partial or complete, and whether in
     bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceedings, or upon
     an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any other marshalling of the
     assets and liabilities of the Issuer or any sale of all or substantially
     all of the assets of the Issuer except pursuant to the Pooling and
     Servicing Agreement (such proceedings being herein collectively called
     "Bankruptcy Proceedings" and individually called a "Bankruptcy
     Proceeding"), the Senior Debt shall first be paid and performed in full and
     in cash before the Holder of this Note shall be entitled to receive and to
     retain any payment or distribution in respect of this Note. In order to
     implement the foregoing; (x) all payments and distributions of any kind or
     character in respect of this Note to which the Holder of this Note would be
     entitled except for this clause (a) shall be made directly to the Trustee
     (for the benefit of the holder of the Senior Debt); (y) if a Bankruptcy
     Proceeding has been commenced, the holder of this Note shall promptly file
     a claim or claims, in the form required in any Bankruptcy Proceedings, for
     the full outstanding amount of this Note, and shall use reasonable efforts
     to cause said claim or claims to be approved and all payments and other
     distributions in respect thereof to be made directly to the Trustee (for
     the benefit of the Holders of the Senior Debt until the Senior Debt shall
     have been paid and performed in full and in cash; and (z) the Holder of
     this Note hereby irrevocably agrees that the Trust

                                        2
<PAGE>   3
     (or the Trustee acting on the Trust's behalf), in the name of the Holder of
     this Note or otherwise, may demand, sue for, collect, receive and receipt
     for any and all such payments or distributions, and file, prove and vote or
     consent in any such Bankruptcy Proceedings with respect to any and all
     claims of the Holder of this Note relating to this Note, in each case until
     the Senior Debt shall have been paid and performed in full and in cash.

         (b) In the event that the Holder of this Note receives any payment or
     other distribution of any kind or character from the Issuer or from any
     other source whatsoever in respect of this Note after the commencement of
     any Bankruptcy Proceeding, such payment or other distribution shall be
     received in trust for the Holders of the Senior Debt and shall be turned
     over by the Holder of this Note to the Trustee (for the benefit of the
     Holders of the Senior Debt) forthwith, until all Senior Debt shall have
     been paid and performed in full and in cash. All payments and distributions
     received by the Trustee in respect of this Note, to the extent received in
     or converted into cash, may be applied by the Trustee (for the benefit of
     the Holders of the Senior Debt) first to the payment of any and all
     reasonable expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and legal
     expenses) paid or incurred by the Trustee or the Holders of the Senior Debt
     in enforcing these subordination provisions, or in endeavoring to collect
     or realize upon this Note, and any balance thereof shall, solely as between
     the Holder of this Note and the Holders of the Senior Debt, be applied by
     the Trustee toward the payment of the Senior Debt in a manner determined by
     the Trustee to be in accordance with the Pooling and Servicing Agreement;
     but as between the Issuer and its creditors no such payments or
     distributions of any kind or character shall be deemed to be payments or
     distributions in respect of the Senior Debt.

         (c) Upon the final payment in full and in cash of all Senior Debt, the
     Holder of this Note shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of the
     Senior Debt to receive payments or distributions from the Issuer that are
     applicable to the Senior Interests until this Note is paid in full.

         (d) These subordination provisions are intended solely for the purpose
     of defining the relative rights of the Holder of this Note, on the one
     hand, and the Holders of the Senior Debt, on the other hand. Nothing
     contained in these subordination provisions or elsewhere in this Note is
     intended to or shall impair, as between the Issuer, its creditors (other
     than the Holders of the Senior Debt) and the Holder of this Note, the
     Issuer's obligation, which is unconditional and absolute, to pay this Note
     as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with the
     terms hereof and of the Receivables Purchase Agreement or to affect the
     relative rights of the Holder of this Note and creditors of the Issuer
     (other than the Holders of the Senior Debt).

                                        3
<PAGE>   4
         (e) The Holder of this Note shall not, until the Senior Debt has been
     finally paid and performed in full and in cash, (i) cancel, waive, forgive,
     transfer or assign or commence legal proceedings to enforce or collect, or
     subordinate to any obligation of the Issuer, howsoever created, arising or
     evidenced, whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, or now or
     hereafter existing, or due or to become due, other than the Senior Debt or
     any rights in respect hereof or (ii) convert this Note into an equity
     interest in the Issuer unless, in the case of each clauses (i) and (ii)
     above, the Holder of this Note shall have received the prior written
     consent of the Trustee in each case.

         (f) The Holder of this Note shall not, without the advance written
     consent of the Trustee, commence, or join with any other Person in
     commencing, any Bankruptcy Proceedings with respect to the Issuer until at
     least one year and one day shall have passed since the Senior Debt shall
     have been finally paid and performed in full and in cash.

         (g) If, at any time, any payment (in whole or in part) made with
     respect to the Senior Debt is rescinded or must be restored or returned by
     a Holder of the Senior Debt (whether in connection with any Bankruptcy
     Proceedings or otherwise), these subordination provisions shall continue to
     be effective or shall be reinstated, as the case may be, as though such
     payment has not been made.

         (h) As between the Holder of this Note and the Holders of the Senior
     Debt, each of the Holders of the Senior Debt may, from time to time, at its
     sole discretion, without notice to the Holder of this Note, and without
     waiving any of its rights under these subordination provisions, take any or
     all of the following actions: (i) retain or obtain an interest in any
     property to secure any of the Senior Debt; (ii) retain or obtain the
     primary or secondary obligations of any other obligor or obligors with
     respect to any of the Senior Debt; (iii) extend or renew for one or more
     periods (whether or not longer than the original period), alter, increase
     or exchange any of the Senior Debt, or release or compromise any obligation
     of any nature with respect to any of the Senior Debt; (iv) amend,
     supplement, amend and restate, or otherwise modify any Transaction
     Documents; and (v) release its security interest in, or surrender, release
     or permit any substitution or exchange for all or any part of any rights or
     property; securing any of the Senior Debt, or extend or renew for one or
     more periods (whether or not longer than the original period), or release
     compromise, alter or exchange any obligations of any nature of any obligor
     with respect to any such rights or property.

         (i) By its acceptance hereof, the Holder of this Note hereby waives;
     (i) notice of acceptance of these subordination provisions by any of the
     Holders of the Senior Debt; (ii)

                                        4
<PAGE>   5
     notice of the existence, creation, non-payment or non-performance of all or
     any of the Senior Debt; and (iii all diligence in enforcement, collection
     or protection of, or realization upon, the Senior Debt, or any thereof, or
     any security therefor.

         (j) These subordination provisions constitute a continuing offer from
     the Issuer to all Persons who become the holders of, or who continue to
     hold, Senior Debt and these subordination provisions are made for the
     benefit of the Holders of the Senior Debt, and the Trustee may proceed to
     enforce such provisions on behalf of each of such Persons.

         The Holder of this Note, by its acceptance hereof, hereby covenants and
agrees that it will not at any time institute against the Issuer any bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other
proceedings under any United States federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

         This Note shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                        5
<PAGE>   6
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly
executed manually by its undersigned officer duly authorized thereunto.

Dated:  November 30, 1995.

                                 DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.
                                   by DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                   as its general partner

                                 By: /s/ Thomas Meredith
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  Thomas Meredith
                                    Title: Cheif Executive Officer and President
<PAGE>   7
                                   SCHEDULE A

         Principal      Interest     Principal        Interest
Date     Advanced         Paid         Paid             Rate
- ----     ---------      --------     ---------        --------
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.21
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>SUBORDINATED NOTE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.21
    

                              DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.

                                SUBORDINATED NOTE

Due:  December 31, 2014                                                    No. 1


         DELL RECEIVABLES L.P. (the "Issuer"), for value received, hereby
promises to pay to DELL DIRECT SALES L.P. (the "Holder"), or its registered
assigns, at its address for payments set forth in Section 8.09 of the
Receivables Purchase Agreement hereinafter referred to, all principal sums owing
from time to time under Section 2.02 of the Receivables Purchase Agreement, upon
the earliest to occur of (i) December 31, 2014, (ii) the date upon which the
aggregate Invested Amount for each series is zero (the "Stated Maturity"),
unless earlier prepaid pursuant to the provisions for repayment referred to
herein, and (iii) any date agreed to by the Issuer and the Holder, and to pay
interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days
in each calendar year) on the unpaid principal sum from the date such principal
sum is advanced, such interest being payable on (i) November 30, 1995 and the
last day of each month thereafter and (ii) on the earlier of (1) the date of
prepayment and (2) Stated Maturity at a rate per annum equal to the one-month
London Interbank Offered Rate plus 0.75%, as published in The Wall Street
Journal on the last Business Day of the preceding month, until the principal
hereof is paid in full. The Holder shall enter on Schedule A information
reflecting the date and amount of each advance and the amount of any payments
made hereon. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the
principal sum hereof and all accrued interest thereon shall not exceed forty
percent (40%) of the excess of the Net Receivables Balance over the Trust
Invested Amount at any given time.

         Payments of the principal of and interest on this Subordinated Note
(this "Note") will be made in such coin or currency of the United States of
America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts by check mailed to, or wire transfer in federal funds to the
account of, the Holder as directed by the Holder. If any payment on this Note
shall remain unpaid on the due date thereof, the same shall thereafter be
payable with interest thereon (to the extent permitted by law) at the Class A
Certificate Rate, from such due date to the date of payment thereof.

         This Note is issued under the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as
of November 21, 1995, between the Issuer and the Holder (the "Receivables
Purchase Agreement"). This Note represents all or a portion of the Purchase
Price for Receivables
<PAGE>   2
purchased by the Issuer pursuant to the terms of the Receivables Purchase
Agreement. Each capitalized term used herein which is defined in the Receivables
Purchase Agreement or the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, dated as of November
21, 1995, among the Issuer, as Transferor, Dell USA L.P., as Servicer and
Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (the "Pooling and
Servicing Agreement") shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Receivables
Purchase Agreement or the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, as the case may be.

         This Note may be prepaid in whole or in part at the option of the
Issuer at any time without a premium.

         The payment of this Note is hereby expressly subordinated in right of
payment to the payment and performance of the "Senior Debt" of the Issuer, which
is any indebtedness in respect of borrowed money as evidenced by bonds, notes,
debentures or similar instruments or letters of credit and any obligations of
the Issuer under the Pooling and Service Agreement, the Receivables Purchase
Agreement and any Supplement ("Indebtedness") of the Issuer, and all renewals,
extensions, refinancings or refundings thereof, except any such Indebtedness
that expressly provides that it is not senior or superior in right of payment
hereto, to the extent and in the manner set forth in this paragraph:

         (a) In the event of any dissolution, winding up, liquidation,
     readjustment, reorganization or other similar event relating to the Issuer,
     whether voluntary or involuntary, partial or complete, and whether in
     bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceedings, or upon
     an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or any other marshalling of the
     assets and liabilities of the Issuer or any sale of all or substantially
     all of the assets of the Issuer except pursuant to the Pooling and
     Servicing Agreement (such proceedings being herein collectively called
     "Bankruptcy Proceedings" and individually called a "Bankruptcy
     Proceeding"), the Senior Debt shall first be paid and performed in full and
     in cash before the Holder of this Note shall be entitled to receive and to
     retain any payment or distribution in respect of this Note. In order to
     implement the foregoing; (x) all payments and distributions of any kind or
     character in respect of this Note to which the Holder of this Note would be
     entitled except for this clause (a) shall be made directly to the Trustee
     (for the benefit of the holder of the Senior Debt); (y) if a Bankruptcy
     Proceeding has been commenced, the holder of this Note shall promptly file
     a claim or claims, in the form required in any Bankruptcy Proceedings, for
     the full outstanding amount of this Note, and shall use reasonable efforts
     to cause said claim or claims to be approved and all payments and other
     distributions in respect thereof to be made directly to the Trustee (for
     the benefit of the Holders of the Senior Debt until the Senior Debt shall
     have been paid and performed in full and in cash; and (z) the Holder of
     this Note hereby irrevocably agrees that the Trust

                                        2
<PAGE>   3
     (or the Trustee acting on the Trust's behalf), in the name of the Holder of
     this Note or otherwise, may demand, sue for, collect, receive and receipt
     for any and all such payments or distributions, and file, prove and vote or
     consent in any such Bankruptcy Proceedings with respect to any and all
     claims of the Holder of this Note relating to this Note, in each case until
     the Senior Debt shall have been paid and performed in full and in cash.

         (b) In the event that the Holder of this Note receives any payment or
     other distribution of any kind or character from the Issuer or from any
     other source whatsoever in respect of this Note after the commencement of
     any Bankruptcy Proceeding, such payment or other distribution shall be
     received in trust for the Holders of the Senior Debt and shall be turned
     over by the Holder of this Note to the Trustee (for the benefit of the
     Holders of the Senior Debt) forthwith, until all Senior Debt shall have
     been paid and performed in full and in cash. All payments and distributions
     received by the Trustee in respect of this Note, to the extent received in
     or converted into cash, may be applied by the Trustee (for the benefit of
     the Holders of the Senior Debt) first to the payment of any and all
     reasonable expenses (including reasonable attorneys fees and legal
     expenses) paid or incurred by the Trustee or the Holders of the Senior Debt
     in enforcing these subordination provisions, or in endeavoring to collect
     or realize upon this Note, and any balance thereof shall, solely as between
     the Holder of this Note and the Holders of the Senior Debt, be applied by
     the Trustee toward the payment of the Senior Debt in a manner determined by
     the Trustee to be in accordance with the Pooling and Servicing Agreement;
     but as between the Issuer and its creditors no such payments or
     distributions of any kind or character shall be deemed to be payments or
     distributions in respect of the Senior Debt.

         (c) Upon the final payment in full and in cash of all Senior Debt, the
     Holder of this Note shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of the
     Senior Debt to receive payments or distributions from the Issuer that are
     applicable to the Senior Interests until this Note is paid in full.

         (d) These subordination provisions are intended solely for the purpose
     of defining the relative rights of the Holder of this Note, on the one
     hand, and the Holders of the Senior Debt, on the other hand. Nothing
     contained in these subordination provisions or elsewhere in this Note is
     intended to or shall impair, as between the Issuer, its creditors (other
     than the Holders of the Senior Debt) and the Holder of this Note, the
     Issuer's obligation, which is unconditional and absolute, to pay this Note
     as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with the
     terms hereof and of the Receivables Purchase Agreement or to affect the
     relative rights of the Holder of this Note and creditors of the Issuer
     (other than the Holders of the Senior Debt).

                                        3
<PAGE>   4
         (e) The Holder of this Note shall not, until the Senior Debt has been
     finally paid and performed in full and in cash, (i) cancel, waive, forgive,
     transfer or assign or commence legal proceedings to enforce or collect, or
     subordinate to any obligation of the Issuer, howsoever created, arising or
     evidenced, whether direct or indirect, absolute or contingent, or now or
     hereafter existing, or due or to become due, other than the Senior Debt or
     any rights in respect hereof or (ii) convert this Note into an equity
     interest in the Issuer unless, in the case of each clauses (i) and (ii)
     above, the Holder of this Note shall have received the prior written
     consent of the Trustee in each case.

         (f) The Holder of this Note shall not, without the advance written
     consent of the Trustee, commence, or join with any other Person in
     commencing, any Bankruptcy Proceedings with respect to the Issuer until at
     least one year and one day shall have passed since the Senior Debt shall
     have been finally paid and performed in full and in cash.

         (g) If, at any time, any payment (in whole or in part) made with
     respect to the Senior Debt is rescinded or must be restored or returned by
     a Holder of the Senior Debt (whether in connection with any Bankruptcy
     Proceedings or otherwise), these subordination provisions shall continue to
     be effective or shall be reinstated, as the case may be, as though such
     payment has not been made.

         (h) As between the Holder of this Note and the Holders of the Senior
     Debt, each of the Holders of the Senior Debt may, from time to time, at its
     sole discretion, without notice to the Holder of this Note, and without
     waiving any of its rights under these subordination provisions, take any or
     all of the following actions: (i) retain or obtain an interest in any
     property to secure any of the Senior Debt; (ii) retain or obtain the
     primary or secondary obligations of any other obligor or obligors with
     respect to any of the Senior Debt; (iii) extend or renew for one or more
     periods (whether or not longer than the original period), alter, increase
     or exchange any of the Senior Debt, or release or compromise any obligation
     of any nature with respect to any of the Senior Debt; (iv) amend,
     supplement, amend and restate, or otherwise modify any Transaction
     Documents; and (v) release its security interest in, or surrender, release
     or permit any substitution or exchange for all or any part of any rights or
     property; securing any of the Senior Debt, or extend or renew for one or
     more periods (whether or not longer than the original period), or release
     compromise, alter or exchange any obligations of any nature of any obligor
     with respect to any such rights or property.

         (i) By its acceptance hereof, the Holder of this Note hereby waives;
     (i) notice of acceptance of these subordination provisions by any of the
     Holders of the Senior Debt; (ii)

                                        4
<PAGE>   5
     notice of the existence, creation, non-payment or non-performance of all or
     any of the Senior Debt; and (iii all diligence in enforcement, collection
     or protection of, or realization upon, the Senior Debt, or any thereof, or
     any security therefor.

         (j) These subordination provisions constitute a continuing offer from
     the Issuer to all Persons who become the holders of, or who continue to
     hold, Senior Debt and these subordination provisions are made for the
     benefit of the Holders of the Senior Debt, and the Trustee may proceed to
     enforce such provisions on behalf of each of such Persons.

         The Holder of this Note, by its acceptance hereof, hereby covenants and
agrees that it will not at any time institute against the Issuer any bankruptcy,
reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or other
proceedings under any United States federal or state bankruptcy or similar law.

         This Note shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.

                                        5
<PAGE>   6
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be duly
executed manually by its undersigned officer duly authorized thereunto.

Dated:  November 30, 1995.

                                 DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.
                                   by DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                   as its general partner

                                 By: /s/ Thomas Meredith
                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Name:  Thomas Meredith
                                    Title: Cheif Executive Officer and President
<PAGE>   7
                                   SCHEDULE A

         Principal      Interest     Principal        Interest
Date     Advanced         Paid         Paid             Rate
- ----     ---------      --------     ---------        --------

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.22
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>POOLING & SERVICING AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.22
    


                                                                EXECUTION COPY



                        DELL RECEIVABLES L.P., Transferor

                           DELL USA L.P., Servicer and

              NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, Trustee

                       DELL TRADE RECEIVABLES MASTER TRUST

                         POOLING AND SERVICING AGREEMENT

                          Dated as of November 21, 1995
<PAGE>   2
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
<S>            <C>                                                         <C>
                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.01.  Definitions...............................................    1
SECTION 1.02.  Other Definitional Provisions.............................   20
                                                                              
                                   ARTICLE II                                 
                                                                              
                             TRANSFER OF RECEIVABLES                          
                                                                              
SECTION 2.01.  Transfer of Receivables...................................   21
SECTION 2.02.  Acceptance by Trustee.....................................   21
SECTION 2.03.  Representations and Warranties of the                          
                 Transferor Relating to the Transferor...................   22
SECTION 2.04.  Representations and Warranties of the                          
                 Transferor Relating to the Trust Assets.................   26
SECTION 2.05.  Affirmative Covenants of the Transferor...................   30
SECTION 2.06.  Negative Covenants of the Transferor......................   33
SECTION 2.07.  Addition and Removal of Originators.......................   37
                                                                              
                                   ARTICLE III                                
                                                                              
                   ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICING OF RECEIVABLES                
                                                                              
SECTION 3.01.  Acceptance of Appointment and Other                            
                 Matters Relating to the Servicer........................   39
SECTION 3.02.  Servicing Compensation; Servicer's                             
                 Expenses................................................   40
SECTION 3.03.  Representations and Warranties of the                          
                 Servicer................................................   41
SECTION 3.04.  Covenants of the Servicer.................................   44
SECTION 3.05.  Reports and Records for the Trustee.......................   48
SECTION 3.06.  Annual Certificate of Servicer............................   48
SECTION 3.07.  Semi-Annual Servicing Report of Independent                    
                 Public Accountants......................................   49
SECTION 3.08.  Tax Treatment.............................................   49
SECTION 3.09.  Notices to Dell USA L.P...................................   50
SECTION 3.10.  Adjustments...............................................   50
SECTION 3.11.  Securities and Exchange Commission                             
                 Filings.................................................   50
</TABLE>


                                        i
<PAGE>   3
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
<S>            <C>                                                         <C>
                                   ARTICLE IV

                        RIGHTS OF CERTIFICATEHOLDERS AND
                    ALLOCATION AND APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS

SECTION 4.01.  Rights of Certificateholders..............................   51
SECTION 4.02.  Establishment of Concentration Account                      
                 and Dell Collection Accounts ...........................   52
SECTION 4.03.  Allocation of Collections.................................   54
                                                                           
                                    ARTICLE V                              
                                                                           
                 DISTRIBUTIONS AND REPORTS TO CERTIFICATEHOLDERS           
                                                                           
SECTION 5.01.  Distributions and Reports to Certificate-                   
                 holders.................................................   56
                                                                           
                                   ARTICLE VI                              
                                                                           
                                THE CERTIFICATES                           
                                                                           
SECTION 6.01.  The Certificates..........................................   57
SECTION 6.02.  Authentication of Certificates............................   57
SECTION 6.03.  Registration of Transfer and Exchange of                    
                 Certificates............................................   58
SECTION 6.04.  Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen                        
                 Certificates............................................   60
SECTION 6.05.  Persons Deemed Owners.....................................   60
SECTION 6.06.  Access to List of Certificateholders'                       
                 Names and Addresses.....................................   61
SECTION 6.07.  Authenticating Agent......................................   61
SECTION 6.08.  New Issuances.............................................   62
                                                                           
                                   ARTICLE VII                             
                                                                           
                    OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO THE TRANSFEROR               
                                                                           
SECTION 7.01.  Obligations not Assignable................................   66
SECTION 7.02.  Limitations on Liability..................................   66
SECTION 7.03.  Indemnification of the Trustee, the Trust                   
                 and the Investor Certificateholders.....................   66
</TABLE>


                                       ii
<PAGE>   4
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
<S>            <C>                                                         <C>
                                  ARTICLE VIII

                     OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO THE SERVICER

SECTION 8.01.  Liability of the Servicer.................................   69
SECTION 8.02.  Merger or Consolidation of, or Assumption                   
                  of the Obligations of, the Servicer....................   69
SECTION 8.03.  Limitations on Liability..................................   69
SECTION 8.04.  Servicer Indemnification..................................   70
SECTION 8.05.  The Servicer Not to Resign................................   71
SECTION 8.06.  Examination of Records....................................   71
SECTION 8.07.  Confidentiality...........................................   72
                                                                           
                                   ARTICLE IX                              
                                                                           
                         TRUST EARLY AMORTIZATION EVENTS                   
                                                                           
SECTION 9.01.  Trust Early Amortization Events...........................   73
SECTION 9.02.  Additional Rights Upon the Occurrence                       
                  of any Trust Early Amortization Event..................   75
                                                                           
                                    ARTICLE X                              
                                                                           
                                SERVICER DEFAULTS                          
                                                                           
SECTION 10.01.  Servicer Defaults........................................   77
SECTION 10.02.  Trustee to Act; Appointment of Successor                   
                  Servicer...............................................   79
SECTION 10.03.  Notification to Certificateholders.......................   81
                                                                           
                                   ARTICLE XI                              
                                                                           
                                   THE TRUSTEE                             
                                                                           
SECTION 11.01.  Duties of the Trustee....................................   82
SECTION 11.02.  Certain Matters Affecting the Trustee....................   84
SECTION 11.03.  Trustee Not Liable for Recitals in                         
                  Certificates...........................................   85
SECTION 11.04.  Trustee May Own Certificates.............................   85
SECTION 11.05.  Compensation; Trustee's Expenses.........................   85
SECTION 11.06.  Eligibility Requirements for Trustee.....................   86
SECTION 11.07.  Resignation or Removal of Trustee........................   86
SECTION 11.08.  Successor Trustee........................................   87
SECTION 11.09.  Merger or Consolidation of Trustee.......................   88
SECTION 11.10.  Appointment of Co-Trustee or Separate                      
                  Trustee................................................   88
</TABLE>                                                      


                                       iii
<PAGE>   5
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
<S>             <C>                                                        <C>
SECTION 11.11.  Tax Returns..............................................    89
SECTION 11.12.  Trustee May Enforce Claims Without                          
                  Possession of Certificates.............................    90
SECTION 11.13.  Suits for Enforcement....................................    90
SECTION 11.14.  Rights of Certificateholders to Direct                      
                  Trustee................................................    90
SECTION 11.15.  Representations and Warranties of Trustee................    91
SECTION 11.16.  Maintenance of Office or Agency..........................    91
                                                                            
                                   ARTICLE XII                              
                                                                            
                                   TERMINATION                              
                                                                            
SECTION 12.01.  Termination of Trust.....................................    92
SECTION 12.02.  Final Distribution.......................................    92
SECTION 12.03.  Transferor's Termination Rights..........................    93
                                                                            
                                  ARTICLE XIII                              
                                                                            
                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS                        
                                                                            
SECTION 13.01.  Amendment................................................    94
SECTION 13.02.  Protection of Right, Title and Interest                     
                  to Trust...............................................    95
SECTION 13.03.  Limitation on Rights of Certificate-                        
                  holders................................................    96
SECTION 13.04.  Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to                     
                  Service of Process.....................................    97
SECTION 13.05.  Notices; Payments........................................    98
SECTION 13.06.  Rule 144A Information....................................    99
SECTION 13.07.  Severability of Provisions...............................    99
SECTION 13.08.  Assignment...............................................    99
SECTION 13.09.  Certificates Nonassessable and Fully Paid................    99
SECTION 13.10.  Further Assurances.......................................   100
SECTION 13.11.  Nonpetition Covenant.....................................   100
SECTION 13.12.  No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies...........................   100
SECTION 13.13.  Counterparts.............................................   100
SECTION 13.14.  Third-Party Beneficiaries................................   100
SECTION 13.15.  Actions by Certificateholders............................   101
SECTION 13.16.  Merger and Integration...................................   101
SECTION 13.17.  Headings.................................................   101
SECTION 13.18.  Construction of Agreement................................   101
</TABLE>


                                       iv
<PAGE>   6
                                    EXHIBITS

Exhibit A         Form of Transferor Certificate
Exhibit B         Form of Annual Servicer's Certificate
Exhibit C         Form of Dell Collection Account Letter
Exhibit D         Form of Rule 144A and Non-Rule 144A Letters
Exhibit E         Form of Daily Report
Exhibit F         Credit Policy and Procedures Manual
Exhibit G         Form of Agreed Upon Procedures
Exhibit H         Form of Monthly Trustee Certificate


                                    SCHEDULES

Schedule I        Dell Post-Office Boxes and Dell Collection Accounts
Schedule II       Originators



                                        v
<PAGE>   7
         POOLING AND SERVICING AGREEMENT, dated as of November 21, 1995, among
DELL RECEIVABLES L.P., a Texas limited partnership, as Transferor (the
"Transferor"), DELL USA L.P., a Texas limited partnership, as Servicer (the
"Servicer"), and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (the
"Trustee").

         In consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, each party
agrees as follows for the benefit of the other parties and the
Certificateholders to the extent provided herein:

                                    ARTICLE I

                                   DEFINITIONS

         SECTION 1.01. Definitions. Whenever used in this Agreement, the
following words and phrases shall have the following meanings, and the
definitions of such terms are applicable to the singular as well as the plural
forms of such terms and to the masculine as well as to the feminine and neuter
genders of such terms. All capitalized terms used herein but not defined shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the related Supplement.

         "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to
time.

         "Additional Originator" shall have the meaning specified in Section
2.07(a).

         "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any specified Person, any other
Person that, directly or indirectly, is in control of, is controlled by or is
under common control with, such specified Person within the meaning of "control"
as such term is used in Section 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

         "Aggregate Certificateholders' Interest" shall mean the aggregate of
the Certificateholders' Interests for each Series as defined in Section 4.01(a).

         "Agreement" shall mean this Pooling and Servicing Agreement, as the
same may from time to time be amended, modified or otherwise supplemented,
including, with respect to any Series or Class, the related Supplement.

         "Amortization Date" with respect to any Series, shall have the meaning
specified in the related Supplement.

         "Amortization Period" shall mean, with respect to any Series, unless
otherwise specified in the related Supplement, the period beginning on the
related Amortization Date and ending upon the payment in full to the Investor
Certificateholders of such Series of the Invested Amount with respect to such
Series, all
<PAGE>   8
accrued and unpaid interest thereon and all other amounts owed to the Investor
Certificateholders hereunder.

         "Beneficiary" shall mean, as of any date of determination, any of the
then holders of the Investor Certificates and any Enhancement Provider.

         "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or
any other day on which national banking associations or state banking
institutions in New York, New York, Austin, Texas or the city in which the
Corporate Trust Office is located are authorized or obligated by law, executive
order or governmental decree to be closed and, with respect to non-financial
reporting requirements of the Servicer or the Transferor, any day on which the
Servicer or the Transferor is closed.

         "Certificate" shall mean any one of the Investor Certificates or the
Transferor Certificate.

         "Certificate Rate" shall mean, with respect to any Series or Class, the
certificate rate specified therefor in the related Supplement.

         "Certificate Register" shall have the meaning specified in Section
6.03(a).

         "Certificateholder" or "Holder" shall mean an Investor
Certificateholder or the Person in whose name the Transferor Certificate is
registered in the Certificate Register.

         "Certificateholders' Interest" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 4.01(a).

         "Class" shall mean, with respect to any Series, any one of the classes
of Investor Certificates of that Series.

         "Collection Period" shall mean, with respect to any Distribution Date,
the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month in which such
Distribution Date occurs.

         "Collections" shall mean (a) all cash payments by or on behalf of the
Obligors deposited to any Dell Collection Account or the Concentration Account,
or received by the Servicer, in respect of Receivables in the form of cash,
checks, wire transfers, electronic transfers or any other form of cash payment,
and (b) all interest and other investment earnings (net of losses and investment
expenses) on Collections (including without limitation funds on deposit in the
Cure Accounts) as a result of the investment thereof pursuant to Section
4.02(a).

         "Concentration Account" shall have the meaning specified in Section
4.02(a).

                                        2
<PAGE>   9
         "Concentration Account Bank" shall initially be Norwest Bank Minnesota,
National Association, and shall have the meaning specified in Section 4.02(a).

         "Concentration Amount" shall mean as of any date, with respect to each
Concentration Limit, the product of (a) such Concentration Limit and (b) the
aggregate amount of Eligible Receivables owned by the Trust.

         "Concentration Limit" with respect to any Series, shall have the
meaning specified in the related Supplement.

         "Confidential Information" shall mean any written information delivered
or made available by or on behalf of Dell (or its Affiliates or subsidiaries),
the Servicer, the Transferor, Dell Marketing L.P. or Dell Direct Sales L.P. to
any Person in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement or the transactions
contemplated hereby which is proprietary in nature and clearly marked or
identified in writing as being confidential information, other than information
(i) which was publicly known, or otherwise known to such Person, at the time of
disclosure (except pursuant to disclosure in connection with any Transaction
Document) or (ii) which subsequently becomes publicly known through no act or
omission by such Person.

         "Contract" shall mean an agreement between an Originator and an
Obligor, containing terms pursuant to or under which such Obligor shall be
obligated to pay from time to time for merchandise delivered or to be delivered
or services performed or to be performed.

         "Controlled Affiliate" shall mean any specified Person controlled by or
under common control with Dell, the Servicer or the Transferor and as to which
Dell, the Servicer or the Transferor beneficially owns or holds 50% or more of
any class of voting securities of such Person or 50% or more of the equity
interest in such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when
used with respect to any specified Person shall mean the power to direct the
management and policies of such specified Person, directly or indirectly,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise;
and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the
foregoing.

         "Corporate Trust Office" shall have the meaning specified in Section
11.16.

         "Credit Policy and Procedures Manual" shall mean those credit and
collection policies and practices of the Servicer described in the credit policy
and procedures manual in effect on the date hereof relating to Receivables, as
the same may be amended or modified from time to time in compliance with Section
3.04(j), substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto.



                                        3
<PAGE>   10
         "Cross-Guarantee Agreement" shall mean the agreement among the
Originators, the Servicer and the Trustee, dated as of November 21, 1995,
governing the terms and conditions upon which the Originators and the Servicer
shall cause the performance of certain obligations of the other parties thereto.

         "Cure Account" with respect to each Series, shall have the meaning
specified in the related Supplement and "Cure Accounts" shall refer to all the
Cure Accounts established for outstanding Series in accordance with the terms of
the related Supplements.

         "Cure Funds" shall mean Collections which, from time to time, are
deposited by the Transferor pro rata to the Cure Account of each Series.

         "Cure Period" shall mean, if the Transferor has elected to begin
depositing Cure Funds to the Cure Account of each Series, the period beginning
on a Pool Non-compliance Date and continuing until the earlier of (a) the date
on which the Net Receivables Balance equals or exceeds the Required Net
Receivables Balance and (b) the fifth consecutive day following such Pool
Non-compliance Date.

         "Daily Report" shall mean an Officer's Certificate of the Servicer
substantially in the form of Exhibit E hereto.

         "Default Ratio" shall mean, as of any date, the average of the ratios
for each of the three most recently ended months (each expressed as a
percentage) of (i) aggregate Receivables that were 121-150 days past due at the
end of each such month plus Receivables which were charged off as uncollectible
during the current month which were less than 121 days past due when charged off
to (ii) aggregate Receivables that were generated by the Originators during the
sixth months preceding such date.

         "Defaulted Receivable" shall mean a Receivable (i) as to which the
Obligor thereof has taken any action, or suffered any event to occur, of the
type constituting an Insolvency Event, (ii) as to which any payment, or part
thereof, remains unpaid by the Obligor thereof for 121 days or more from the
original due date for such payment specified in the relevant invoice, or (iii)
which, consistent with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual, would be written
off as uncollectible.

         "Dell" shall mean Dell Computer Corporation, a Delaware corporation.

         "Dell Collection Account" shall have the meaning specified in Section
4.02(b).

         "Dell Collection Account Bank" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 4.02(b).



                                        4
<PAGE>   11
         "Dell Collection Account Letter" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 4.02(b).

         "Dell Post-Office Box" shall have the meaning specified in Section
4.02(b).

         "Deposit Date" shall mean each Business Day on which any Collections
are deposited in the Concentration Account.

         "Determination Date" shall mean, with respect to any Distribution Date,
the second Business Day preceding such Distribution Date.

         "Determination Date Certificate" shall mean, with respect to any
Determination Date and any Series, a report prepared by a Servicing Officer for
such Determination Date as of the end of the immediately preceding month in
substantially the form set forth in the related Supplement.

         "Diluted Receivable" shall mean that portion of any Eligible Receivable
which is either (a) reduced or cancelled as a result of (i) any failure by any
Originator to deliver any merchandise or provide any services or otherwise to
perform under the underlying Contract or invoice, (ii) any change in the terms
of, or cancellation of, a Contract or invoice or any other adjustment by the
Servicer which reduces the amount payable by the Obligor on the related
Receivable or (iii) any setoff by an Obligor in respect of any claim by an
Obligor as to amounts owed by it on the related Receivable or (b) subject to any
specific dispute, offset, counterclaim or defense whatsoever asserted (except
the discharge in bankruptcy of the Obligor thereof); provided that Diluted
Receivables are calculated assuming that all disputes are resolved in the
Obligor's favor and do not include contractual adjustments to the amount payable
by an Obligor that are eliminated from the Receivables balance sold to the Trust
through a reduction in the Purchase Price for the related Receivable.

         "Dilution Ratio" shall mean, as of any date, the sum of (A)(i) the
aggregate Receivables that were Diluted Receivables as of the most recently
ended month divided by the sum of (1) 50% of the Originators' aggregate sales
during the month immediately preceding the most recently ended month and (2) 50%
of sales during the second month immediately preceding the most recently ended
month, multiplied by (ii) 66.7% and (B)(i) the aggregate Receivables that were
Diluted Receivables as of the month immediately preceding the most recently
ended month divided by the sum of (1) 50% of sales during the second month
immediately preceding the most recently ended month and (2) 50% of sales during
the third month immediately preceding the most recently ended month, multiplied
by (ii) 33.3%.

                                        5
<PAGE>   12
         "Dilution Volatility Factor" shall mean, as of any date, a percentage
equal to the product of (a) the amount by which (i) the highest Dilution Ratio
during the most recently ended twelve-month period exceeds (ii) the average of
the Dilution Ratios during such twelve-month period and (b)(i) the highest
Dilution Ratio during such twelve-month period divided by (ii) the average of
the Dilution Ratios during such twelve-month period.

         "Discount Amount" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the amount
set forth in the related Supplement.

         "Distribution Date" shall mean, with respect to any Collection Period,
the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately following such Collection
Period, or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day
or such other day as set forth in the Supplement for any Series.

         "DCR" shall mean Duff & Phelps Credit Rating Co. or its successor.

         "Early Amortization Period" shall mean, with respect to any Series,
unless otherwise specified in the related Supplement, the period beginning at
the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which
a Trust Early Amortization Event is deemed to have occurred, and ending upon the
earlier to occur of (a) the payment in full to the Investor Certificateholders
of such Series of the Invested Amount with respect to such Series and (b) the
Termination Date with respect to such Series.

         "Eligible Institution" shall mean a depository institution organized
under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof, including
the District of Columbia (or any domestic branch of a foreign bank), (a) whose
long-term unsecured debt obligations are rated at least (i) if DCR is a Rating
Agency, A- or better, (ii) if S&P is a Rating Agency, A- or better, and (iii) if
Moody's is a Rating Agency, at least A3 or (b) which is subject to regulation
regarding fiduciary funds on deposit substantially similar to 12 C.F.R. Section
9.10(b).

         "Eligible Investments" shall mean book-entry securities entered on the
books of the registrar of such securities and held in the name or on behalf of
the Trustee, negotiable instruments or securities represented by instruments in
bearer or registered form (registered in the name of the Trustee or its nominee)
which evidence:

         (a) direct obligations of, or obligations fully guaranteed as to timely
     payment by, the United States of America or any agency thereof;

         (b) demand deposits, time deposits or certificates of deposit (having
     original maturities of no more than 270 days)



                                        6
<PAGE>   13
     of depository institutions or trust companies incorporated under the laws
     of the United States of America or any state thereof (or domestic branches
     of foreign banks), subject to supervision and examination by federal or
     state banking or depository institution authorities, and having, at the
     time of the Trust's investment or contractual commitment to invest therein,
     the highest short-term unsecured debt rating from each Rating Agency;

         (c)   commercial paper (having original maturities of no more than 270
     days) having, at the time of the Trust's investment or contractual
     commitment to invest therein, the highest short-term rating from each
     Rating Agency;

         (d)   investments in no-load money market funds having a rating from 
     each rating agency rating such fund in its highest investment category; or

         (e)   notes or bankers' acceptances (having original maturities of no
     more than 270 days) issued by any depository institution or trust company
     described in clause (b) above.

provided that securities which meet the following criteria shall not be Eligible
Investments: (a) any security to which S&P has attached the symbol "r" in its
rating, (b) any security that contains a noncredit risk that the "r" was
intended to highlight, whether or not such security is rated, and (c) all
mortgage-backed securities.

         "Eligible Receivable" shall mean, at any time, unless otherwise
specified, each Receivable or portion thereof:

         (i)   as to which, at the time of the Transfer of such Receivable to 
     the Trust, the Transferor or the Trust will have good and marketable title
     thereto free and clear from any and all Liens except as created hereunder,
     and which has been the subject of either a valid transfer and assignment
     from the Transferor to the Trust of all the Transferor's right, title and
     interest therein (and in the proceeds thereof), or the grant of a first
     priority perfected "security interest" (within the meaning of the UCC of
     the jurisdiction the law of which governs the perfection of the interest in
     such Receivable created hereunder) therein (and in the proceeds thereof);

         (ii)  which is not a Defaulted Receivable or a Diluted Receivable;

         (iii) which arose in the ordinary course of business of any Originator
     and is an account receivable representing all or part of the sales price of
     merchandise or services within



                                        7
<PAGE>   14
     the meaning of Section 3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act, the Obligor
     of which is primarily liable with respect thereto;

         (iv)   which is an "account" (within the meaning of Section 9-106 of
     the UCC of the jurisdiction the law of which governs the perfection of the
     interest in such Receivable created hereunder);

         (v)    which is denominated and payable only in United States dollars 
     in the United States;

         (vi)   the Obligor of which is a United States resident;

         (vii)  which will at all times be the legal and assignable payment
     obligation of the Obligor of such Receivable, enforceable against such
     Obligor in accordance with its terms except as such enforceability may be
     limited by applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or
     other laws affecting creditors' rights generally, and except as such
     enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity (whether
     considered in a suit at law or in equity);

         (viii) which was created in compliance with, and which, at the time of
     the Transfer of such Receivable to the Trust, does not contravene in any
     material respect any applicable Requirements of Law, and the Obligor of
     which is not in violation of any such Requirements of Law in any material
     respect with respect to such Receivable;

         (ix)   which satisfies in all material respects all applicable
     requirements of the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual;

         (x)    with respect to which all material consents, licenses, approvals
     or authorizations of, or registrations or declarations with, any
     Governmental Authority required to be obtained, effected or given in
     connection with the creation of such Receivable have been duly obtained,
     effected or given and are in full force and effect;

         (xi)   which is not subject to any specific waiver or modification 
     except for a Receivable which is subject to a waiver or modification as
     permitted in accordance with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual and
     which waiver or modification is reflected in the Servicer's records and
     computer files relating thereto;

         (xii)  which is not subject to any enforceable provision prohibiting 
     the transfer or assignment by any Originator of such payment obligation;



                                        8
<PAGE>   15
         (xiii) the payment terms of which conform in all material respects to
     the provisions of the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual;

         (xiv)  the Obligor of which is not a Controlled Affiliate of Dell, the
     Servicer or the Transferor; and

         (xv)   the Obligor of which has been directed to remit payments with
     respect thereto to a Dell Post-Office Box or a Dell Collection Account.

         "Eligible Servicer" shall mean Dell USA L.P., the Trustee or another
entity which, at the time of its appointment as Servicer, (a) is servicing a
portfolio of trade receivables and has demonstrated the ability to
professionally and competently service a portfolio of similar trade receivables
with reasonable standards of skill and care and (b) is legally qualified and has
the capacity to service the Receivables.

         "Enhancement" shall mean the rights and benefits provided to the
Investor Certificateholders of any Series or Class pursuant to any letter of
credit, surety bond, cash collateral account, spread account, guaranteed rate
agreement, maturity liquidity facility, tax protection agreement, interest rate
swap agreement or other similar arrangement.

         "Enhancement Agreement" shall mean any agreement, instrument or
document governing the terms of any Enhancement of any Series or Class or
pursuant to which any Enhancement of any Series or Class is issued or
outstanding.

         "Enhancement Provider" shall mean a Person providing any Enhancement,
other than any Certificateholders (including any holder of the Transferor
Certificate) the Certificates of which are subordinated to any other Series or
Class.

         "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended from time to time.

         "Expected Final Payment Date" with respect to any Series, shall have
the meaning specified in the related Supplement.

         "Extended Term Receivable" shall mean an Eligible Receivable arising
under an account with an Obligor, the payment terms of which allow it to be paid
in full more than 30 days but no more than 90 days after the original billing
date of such Receivable.

         "Extended Term Receivable Reduction Amount" shall mean, at any time,
the amount by which the aggregate outstanding balances of all Extended Term
Receivables exceeds 5% of the aggregate principal balance of all Receivables at
such time.


                                        9
<PAGE>   16
         "FDIC" shall mean the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any
successor.

         "Floating Allocation Percentage" with respect to each Series, shall
have the meaning specified in the related Supplement; provided, however, that
the aggregate of the Floating Allocation Percentages with respect to all
outstanding Series shall not exceed 100%.

         "Floorplan Receivable" shall mean a Receivable which is guaranteed by a
third party obligor and which is subject to a financing arrangement with the
recipient of merchandise of Dell Marketing L.P. or Dell Direct Sales L.P.

         "Floorplan Receivable Reduction Amount" shall mean, at any time, the
product of (a) the aggregate outstanding balances of Floorplan Receivables and
(b) 1.50%.

         "Government Receivable" shall mean a Receivable with respect to which
the Obligor is a state or municipal entity or the federal government of the
United States or a political, administrative or regulatory subdivision thereof.

         "Government Receivable Reduction Amount" shall mean, at any time, the
amount by which the aggregate outstanding balances of Government Receivables
exceeds 2% of the aggregate principal balance of all Receivables at such time.

         "Governmental Authority" shall mean any country or nation, any
political subdivision, state or municipality of such country or nation, and any
entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative
functions of or pertaining to the government of any country or nation or
political subdivision thereof.

         "Indemnified Amounts" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.03.

         "Indemnified Party" shall have the meaning specified in Section 7.03.

         "Independent Public Accountants" means any of (a) Arthur Andersen &
Co., (b) Deloitte & Touche, (c) Coopers & Lybrand, (d) Ernst & Young, (e) KPMG
Peat Marwick L.L.P. and (f) Price Waterhouse L.L.P. or any of their successors
so long as such successor is one of the six largest national accounting firms;
provided that such firm is independent with respect to the Servicer within the
meaning of the Act.

         "Initial Invested Amount" shall mean, with respect to any Series and
for any date, an amount equal to the initial invested amount specified in the
related Supplement.


                                       10
<PAGE>   17
         "Initial Issuance Date" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the
Closing Date specified in the related Supplement.

         "Insolvency Event" shall mean, with respect to a specified Person, (a)
the filing of a decree or order for relief by a court having jurisdiction in the
premises in respect of such Person or any substantial part of its property in an
involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar
law now or hereafter in effect, or the appointing of a receiver, liquidator,
assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or similar official for such Person
or for all or any substantial part of its property, or the ordering of the
winding-up or liquidation of such Person's business, and such decree or order
shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (b)
the commencement by such Person or by a Controlled Affiliate of such Person
(provided that in the case of Dell or any of its Affiliates, such Controlled
Affiliate is domiciled in the United States and has assets which constitute 2.5%
or more of the assets of Dell) of a voluntary case under any applicable
bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or the
consent by such Person to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary
case under any such law, or the consent by such Person to the appointment of or
taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee for the benefit of
creditors, custodian, trustee, sequestrator or similar official for such Person
or for all or any substantial part of its property, or the making by such Person
of any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or (c) the failure by
such Person generally to pay its debts as such debts become due or the admission
by such Person in writing (as to which the Trustee shall have written notice) of
its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due.

         "Internal Revenue Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended from time to time.

         "Invested Amount" shall mean, with respect to any Series and for any
date, an amount equal to the invested amount specified in the related
Supplement.

         "Investment Company Act" shall mean the Investment Company Act of 1940,
as amended from time to time.

         "Investor Certificate" shall mean any one of the certificates executed
by the Transferor and authenticated by or on behalf of the Trustee, in
substantially the form attached to the related Supplement, other than the
Transferor Certificate.

         "Investor Certificateholder" shall mean the Person in whose name an
Investor Certificate is registered in the Certificate Register.


                                       11
<PAGE>   18
         "Investor Collections" with respect to each Series, shall have the
meaning specified in the related Supplement.

         "Lien" shall mean any mortgage, deed of trust, pledge, hypothecation,
assignment, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), preference, participation
interest, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of
any kind or nature whatsoever resulting in an encumbrance against real or
personal property of a Person, including, without limitation, any conditional
sale or other title retention agreement, any financing lease having
substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing and the filing of
any financing statement under the UCC or comparable law of any jurisdiction to
evidence any of the foregoing.

         "Loss and Dilution Reserve" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the
amount set forth in the related Supplement.

         "Loss to Liquidation Ratio" shall mean, as to any date, the ratio
(expressed as a percentage) calculated by dividing (a) the aggregate Outstanding
Balance of all Receivables written off as uncollectible in accordance with the
Credit Policy and Procedures Manual by the Servicer during the one-month period
most recently ended by (b) the aggregate amount of Collections during such
one-month period.

         "Majority in Interest" shall mean, with respect to each Series, the
Holders of Certificates evidencing 51% or more of the aggregate
Certificateholders' Interest in such outstanding Series.

         "Moody's" shall mean Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or its successor.

         "Net Receivables Balance" shall mean, at any time, the excess of (a)
the aggregate Outstanding Balance of Receivables over (b) the sum of (i) the
aggregate Outstanding Balance of Receivables that are not Eligible Receivables
at such time, plus (ii) the Overconcentration Amount at such time, plus (iii)
the aggregate amount of Collections that have not been applied to the
corresponding Receivables on the records of the Servicer, plus (iv) the Extended
Term Receivable Reduction Amount, plus (v) the Government Receivable Reduction
Amount, plus (vi) the Floorplan Receivable Reduction Amount.

         "Obligor" shall mean each Person who is obligated to pay for
merchandise or services provided by any Originator which gave rise to a
Receivable, including any guarantor of such Person's obligations.

         "Officer's Certificate" shall mean, unless otherwise specified in this
Agreement, a certificate signed by the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief
Financial Officer, the Treasurer or


                                       12
<PAGE>   19
the Controller of the Transferor or of the Servicer or any Successor Servicer,
as the case may be, and delivered to the Trustee and each Rating Agency.

         "Opinion of Counsel" shall mean a written opinion of counsel, who,
unless otherwise specified, may be counsel for, or an employee of, the Person
providing the opinion, or an Affiliate of such Person, and who shall be
reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.

         "Originator" shall mean the divisions of Dell Marketing L.P., an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell, and Dell Direct Sales L.P., an
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell, that are listed in Schedule II and any
other Person or division of any Person designated from time to time as an
Originator pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07 and the Receivables Purchase
Agreements.

         "Outstanding Balance" of any Receivable at any time shall mean the then
outstanding principal balance thereof.

         "Overconcentration Amount" shall mean, at any time, the sum of the
amounts, if any, by which the aggregate Outstanding Balance of Eligible
Receivables of the types specified in clauses (a) through (g) of the definition
of Concentration Limit in the related Supplement owned by the Trust exceeds the
aggregate of the respective Concentration Amounts.

         "Parent Undertaking Agreement" shall mean the agreement among Dell and
the Trustee, dated as of November 21, 1995, governing the terms and conditions
upon which Dell shall cause the performance of certain obligations of the
Servicer.

         "Partial Amortization Period" shall mean, if the Transferor has not
elected to begin depositing Cure Funds to the Cure Account of each Series
(thereby initiating a Cure Period) the period beginning on a Pool Non-compliance
Date and continuing until the earlier of (a) the date on which the Net
Receivables Balance equals or exceeds the Required Net Receivables Balance and
(b) the fifth consecutive day following such Pool Non-compliance Date.

         "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, joint
venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization,
Governmental Authority or any other entity of similar nature.

         "Pool Non-compliance Date" shall mean any day on which the Net
Receivables Balance falls below the Required Net Receivables Balance.

         "Principal Terms" shall mean, with respect to any Series: (a) the name
or designation; (b) the initial principal amount (or method for calculating such
amount); (c) the Certificate Rate (or method for the determination thereof); (d)
the payment date or


                                       13
<PAGE>   20
dates and the date or dates from which interest shall accrue; (e) the method for
allocating collections to Investor Certificate- holders; (f) the designation of
any Series Accounts and the terms governing the operation of any such Series
Accounts; (g) the issuer and terms of any form of Enhancement with respect
thereto; (h) the terms on which the Investor Certificates of such Series may be
exchanged for Investor Certificates of another Series, repurchased or redeemed
by the Transferor or remarketed to other investors; (i) the number of Classes of
Investor Certificates of such Series and, if more than one Class, the rights and
priorities of each such Class; (j) the Series Servicing Fee and the Series
Trustee's Fee; and (k) the Amortization Date and the Termination Date.

         "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning specified in each Receivables
Purchase Agreement.

         "Rating Agency" shall mean each such nationally-recognized statistical
rating organization which has rated any Series of Certificates at the request of
the Transferor.

         "Rating Agency Condition" shall mean, with respect to any specified
action, that each Rating Agency, upon the written request of the Transferor, the
Servicer or the Trustee, shall have notified such parties in writing that such
action in and of itself will not result in a reduction or withdrawal of the
rating of any outstanding Series or Class with respect to which it is a Rating
Agency.

         "Receivable" shall mean an account receivable shown on the records of
any Originator as of the Transfer Date, and from time to time thereafter,
arising from the delivery of merchandise or providing of services by any
Originator in the ordinary course of business of such Originator, including
without limitation all monies due or to become due and all Collections and other
amounts received from time to time with respect to such Receivable and all
proceeds (including, without limitation, "proceeds" as defined in the UCC of the
jurisdiction the law of which governs the perfection of the interest on the
Receivables transferred hereunder) thereof, including without limitation amounts
on deposit in any Dell Collection Accounts, and "Receivables" shall mean all
such Receivables.

         "Receivables Purchase Agreements" shall mean the agreement between Dell
Marketing L.P., as seller, and the Transferor, as purchaser, dated as of the
date hereof, and the agreement between Dell Direct Sales L.P., as seller, and
the Transferor, as purchaser, dated as of the date hereof, both of which govern
the terms and conditions upon which the Transferor shall have acquired the
Receivables transferred to the Trust, as the same may from time to time be
amended, modified or otherwise supplemented.



                                       14
<PAGE>   21
         "Reconveyed Receivable" shall have the meaning specified in Section
2.04.

         "Record Date" shall mean, with respect to any Distribution Date, the
last day of the preceding calendar month.

         "Removed Originator" shall have the meaning specified in Section
2.07(b).

         "Required Net Receivables Balance" shall mean as of any day of
determination, the sum of (i) the aggregate of the Loss and Dilution Reserves
for all outstanding Series, (ii) the aggregate of the Yield/Fee Reserves for all
outstanding Series and (iii) the aggregate of all Class A Invested Amounts for
all outstanding Series (computed as if reduced by (A) the amount of Cure Funds
held in the Cure Account for each Series and (B) the amount of funds held at
such time in the Concentration Account allocated to the Trust Partial
Amortization Amount allocable to each such Series).

         "Requirements of Law" shall mean any law, treaty, rule or regulation,
or final determination of an arbitrator or Governmental Authority, and, when
used with respect to any Person, the certificate of incorporation and by-laws or
other organizational or governing documents of such Person.

         "Responsible Officer" shall mean, (i) when used with respect to the
Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee
including any vice president, assistant vice president, secretary, assistant
secretary, treasurer, assistant treasurer, trust officer or any other officer of
the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the
Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any
corporate trust matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and
familiarity with the particular subject, (ii) when used with respect to the
Transferor, any of the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the
Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of
its general partner, (iii) when used with respect to the Servicer, Dell
Marketing L.P. or Dell Direct Sales L.P., any of the Chairman, the Chief
Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the General Counsel, the
Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of
its general partner and (iv) when used with respect to Dell, any of the
Chairman, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial
Officer, the Treasurer, the General Counsel or the Secretary.

         "Revolving Period" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the period
specified in the related Supplement.


                                       15
<PAGE>   22
         "S&P" shall mean Standard & Poor's Corporation or Standard & Poor's
Ratings Group, as applicable, or the successor of either of them.

         "Series" shall mean any series of Investor Certificates.

         "Series Account" shall mean any deposit, trust, escrow, reserve or
similar account maintained for the benefit of the Investor Certificateholders of
any Series or Class, as specified in any Supplement.

         "Series Allocation Percentage" shall mean, with respect to any Series,
the percentage equivalent of a fraction, the numerator of which is the sum of
(a) the Class A Invested Amount for such Series (computed as if reduced by (A)
the amount of Cure Funds held in the Cure Account for such Series and (B) the
cumulative amount of funds held at such time in the Concentration Account
allocated to the portion of the Trust Partial Amortization Amount allocable to
such Series) plus (b) the Yield/Fee Reserve for such Series, plus (c) the Loss
and Dilution Reserve for such Series, and the denominator of which is the
aggregate of the amounts specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) for all
outstanding Series.

         "Series Servicing Fee" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the
amount specified in the applicable Supplement.

         "Series Trustee's Fee" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the
amount specified in the applicable Supplement.

         "Service Transfer" shall have the meaning specified in Section 10.01.

         "Servicer" initially shall mean Dell USA, L.P., and after any Service
Transfer shall mean the Successor Servicer.

         "Servicer Default" shall have the meaning specified in Section 10.01.

         "Servicing Fee" shall have the meaning specified in Section 3.02(a).

         "Successor Servicer" shall have the meaning specified in Section
10.02(a).

         "Supplement" shall mean, with respect to any Series, a supplement to
this Agreement, executed and delivered in connection with the original issuance
of the Investor Certificates of such Series pursuant to Article VI, and all
amendments, modifications or supplements to this Agreement.



                                       16
<PAGE>   23
         "Supplemental Certificate" shall have the meaning specified in Section
6.08(c).

         "Tax Opinion" shall mean, with respect to any action, an Opinion of
Counsel who is not an employee of the Servicer or any Affiliate of the Servicer
to the effect that, for federal and Texas (and any other State where substantial
servicing activities in respect of Receivables are conducted by the Transferor
or the Servicer if there is a substantial change from present servicing
activities) state income and franchise tax purposes, (a) such action will not
adversely affect the characterization of the Investor Certificates of any
outstanding Series or Class as debt of the Transferor for tax purposes, (b) such
action will not cause a taxable event to any Investor Certificateholder, (c)
following such action the Trust should not be treated as an association (or
publicly traded partnership) taxable as a corporation, (d) in the case of the
original issuance of Certificates, either (i) the Investor Certificates will
properly be characterized as debt of the Transferor or (ii) the Investor
Certificates should properly be characterized as debt of the Transferor, or if
not debt, as an interest in a partnership and not in an association taxable as a
corporation and (e) in the case of Section 6.08(b), the Investor Certificates of
the new Series will be characterized as debt.

         "Termination Date" shall mean, with respect to any Series, the
termination date specified in the related Supplement.

         "Termination Notice" shall have the meaning specified in Section 10.01.

         "Transaction Documents" shall mean the collective reference to this
Agreement, any Supplement, any Certificates, the Receivables Purchase
Agreements, the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, the Parent Undertaking Agreement and
any Certificate Purchase Agreement.

         "Transfer" shall have the meanings specified in Section 2.01(a), it
being understood that the date of Transfer of any Receivable or other Trust
Asset shall be the date on which such Receivable or other Trust Asset shall be
created or otherwise arise and, in the case of such Receivable, be acquired by
the Transferor under the applicable Receivables Purchase Agreement.

         "Transfer Agent and Registrar" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 6.03(a).

         "Transfer Date" shall mean the initial date of Transfer of Receivables
into the Trust.

         "Transferor" shall mean Dell Receivables L.P., a Texas limited
partnership.


                                       17
<PAGE>   24
         "Transferor Certificate" shall mean the certificate executed by the
Transferor and authenticated by or on behalf of the Trustee, in substantially
the form of Exhibit A hereto.

         "Transferor Collections" shall mean, with respect to any date, that
portion of the Collections deposited to the Concentration Account equal to the
product of (i) the Transferor Percentage on such date times (ii) the aggregate
amount of such Collections.

         "Transferor Interest" shall have the meaning specified in Section
4.01(a).

         "Transferor Percentage" shall mean at any time 100% minus the aggregate
of the Floating Allocation Percentages of all outstanding Series at such time.

         "Transferor Receivable" shall mean a Receivable acquired by the
Transferor pursuant to a Receivables Purchase Agreement.

         "Transferor's Account" shall mean the special account (account number
40685227), under the dominion and control of the Transferor, for deposits by the
Servicer pursuant to the applicable Supplement, maintained at Citibank, N.A. in
New York, New York, or such other account at such other bank, under the dominion
and control of the Transferor, as Transferor may designate for such purpose from
time to time.

         "Trust" shall mean the Dell Trade Receivables Master Trust created by
this Agreement.

         "Trust Assets" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.01(a).

         "Trust Early Amortization Event" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 9.01.

         "Trust Invested Amount" shall mean, at any time, the sum of the
Invested Amounts for all outstanding Series at such time.

         "Trust Partial Amortization Amount" shall mean, with respect to any
date of determination during a Partial Amortization Period, the amount by which
the Net Receivables Balance is less than the Required Net Receivables Balance.

         "Trustee" shall mean Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, in
its capacity as trustee on behalf of the Trust, or its successor in interest, or
any successor trustee appointed as herein provided.

         "Trustee's Account" with respect to each Series, shall have the meaning
specified in the related Supplement.



                                       18
<PAGE>   25
         "Trustee's Fee" shall have the meaning specified in Section 11.05(a).

         "Turnover Rate" shall mean, for any date, the average of the percentage
equivalent of a fraction for each of the three most recently ended months the
numerator of which is the Net Receivables Balance as of the last day of each
such month and the denominator of which is the aggregate balance of Receivables
transferred to the Trust during each such month; provided, however, that with
respect to any such months, or portion thereof, occurring prior to the Transfer
Date, the denominator of such fraction shall be the aggregate balance of
Receivables originated by the Originators during such month or portion thereof.

         "UCC" shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code, as amended from time to
time, as in effect in any applicable or specified jurisdiction.

         "Undivided Fractional Interest" with respect to each Series, shall have
the meaning specified in the related Supplement.

         "Weighted Average Term" shall mean, as of any date, a fraction the
numerator of which is the sum of the product for each Receivable generated by
the Originators during the preceding month of (i) the outstanding balance of
such Receivable (at the time such Receivable is transferred to the Trust) times
(ii) the payment term (in days) for each such Receivable, and the denominator of
which is the aggregate outstanding balance of such Receivables (at the time such
Receivable is transferred to the Trust).

         "Yield/Fee Reserve" with respect to each Series, shall have the meaning
specified in the related Supplement.

         SECTION 1.02. Other Definitional Provisions. (a) All terms defined in
this Agreement shall have the defined meanings when used in any certificate or
other document made or delivered pursuant hereto unless otherwise defined
therein.

         (b) As used herein and in any certificate or other document made or
delivered pursuant hereto or thereto, accounting terms not defined in this
Agreement, and accounting terms partly defined in this Agreement to the extent
not completely defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them under
generally accepted accounting principles or regulatory accounting principles, as
applicable and in effect from time to time. To the extent that the definitions
of accounting terms herein are inconsistent with the meanings of such terms
under generally accepted accounting principles or regulatory accounting
principles, the definitions contained herein shall control.

         (c) The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar
import when used in this Agreement shall refer to



                                       19
<PAGE>   26
this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement;
and Section, Schedule and Exhibit references contained in this Agreement are
references to Sections, Schedules and Exhibits in or to this Agreement unless
otherwise specified; and the term "including" means "including without
limitation".



                                       20
<PAGE>   27
                                   ARTICLE II

                             TRANSFER OF RECEIVABLES

         SECTION 2.01. Transfer of Receivables. (a) By execution of this
Agreement, the Transferor does hereby transfer, assign, set-over and otherwise
convey without recourse, except as expressly provided herein (the making of such
transfer, assignment, set-over and conveyance being a "Transfer", and so to
transfer, assign, set-over and otherwise convey being to "Transfer") to the
Trust, for the benefit of the Certificateholders:

         (i)  all of the Transferor's right, title and interest in, to and under
     all Transferor Receivables existing at the close of business on the
     Transfer Date and thereafter created from time to time, and conveyed to the
     Transferor under the Receivables Purchase Agreements from time to time,
     until the termination of the Revolving Period of the last outstanding
     Series, and all monies due or to become due and all Collections and other
     amounts received from time to time with respect to such Transferor
     Receivables and all proceeds (including, without limitation, "proceeds" as
     defined in the UCC of the jurisdiction the law of which governs the
     perfection of the interest in the Transferor Receivables transferred
     hereunder) thereof; and

         (ii) all of the Transferor's rights, remedies, powers and privileges
     under the Receivables Purchase Agreements.

Such property described in the preceding sentence, together with all monies from
time to time on deposit in, and all Eligible Investments and other securities,
instruments and other investments purchased from funds on deposit in, the
Concentration Account, the Dell Collection Accounts and any Series Account, and
any Enhancement shall constitute the assets of the Trust (collectively the
"Trust Assets").

         The foregoing Transfer does not constitute and is not intended to
result in an assumption by the Trust, the Trustee or any Certificateholder of
any obligation of the Servicer, Dell, the Transferor or any other Person in
connection with the Receivables or under the Receivables Purchase Agreements or
under any agreement or instrument relating thereto, including, without
limitation, any obligation to any Obligor. The foregoing Transfer to the Trust
shall be made to the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, and each reference in this
Agreement to such Transfer shall be construed accordingly.

         The Transferor agrees to record and file from time to time, at its own
expense, financing statements and other documents (and amendments thereto,
assignments thereof and continuation statements, when applicable) with respect
to the Receivables and



                                       21
<PAGE>   28
the other Trust Assets now existing and hereafter created meeting the
requirements of applicable law in such manner and in such jurisdictions as are
necessary to perfect, and maintain perfection of, the Transfers of the
Receivables and the other Trust Assets to the Trust, and to deliver a
file-stamped copy of any such financing statement or other document or other
evidence of such filing to the Trustee on or prior to the Transfer Date. The
Trustee shall be under no obligation whatsoever to file any such financing
statements, documents, amendments, assignments or continuation statements, or to
make any other filing under the UCC in connection with such Transfer.

         The Servicer and the Transferor further agree, at their own expense, on
or prior to the Transfer Date, to mark their computer records in a manner
reasonably calculated to indicate that the Receivables have been conveyed, in
the case of any Originator, to the Transferor in accordance with the Receivables
Purchase Agreements and, in the case of the Transferor, to the Trust in
accordance with this Agreement for the benefit of the Certificate- holders.

         (b) The Trustee agrees to use its best efforts, and shall cause its
agents or representatives to use their best efforts, to hold in confidence all
Confidential Information; provided that nothing herein shall prevent the Trustee
from delivering copies of any financial statements and other documents
constituting Confidential Information, or disclosing any other Confidential
Information, (i) to a Successor Servicer or as required by a Requirement of Law
applicable to the Trustee, (ii) as required in the performance of the Trustee's
duties hereunder, (iii) as required in enforcing the rights of the
Certificateholders hereunder or (iv) as provided in any Supplement. The Trustee
agrees to take such measures as shall be reasonably requested by the Transferor
to protect and maintain the security and confidentiality of all Confidential
Information and, in connection therewith, will allow the Transferor to inspect
the Trustee's security and confidentiality arrangements from time to time during
normal business hours. The Trustee shall provide written notice to the
Transferor whenever any such disclosure is made.

         SECTION 2.02. Acceptance by Trustee. (a) The Trustee hereby
acknowledges its acceptance on behalf of the Trust of all right, title and
interest in and to the Trust Assets, now existing and hereafter created and
transferred to the Trust pursuant to Section 2.01 and the Trustee declares that
it shall maintain such right, title and interest, upon the trust herein set
forth, for the benefit of all Certificateholders.

         (b) The Trustee shall have no power to create, assume or incur
indebtedness or other liabilities in the name of the Trust other than as
contemplated in this Agreement.



                                       22
<PAGE>   29
         SECTION 2.03. Representations and Warranties of the Transferor Relating
to the Transferor. The Transferor hereby represents and warrants to the Trust as
of the date hereof and, by accepting on the Transfer Date the proceeds of such
Transfer, as of the Transfer Date and, with respect to any Series, as of the
date of the related Supplement and the related Initial Issuance Date, unless
otherwise stated in such Supplement, that:

         (a) Organization and Good Standing. The Transferor is a limited
partnership duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the State of
Texas and has full power, authority and legal right to own and convey its
properties and conduct its business as presently owned or conducted, to execute,
deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement and the Receivables
Purchase Agreements, and to execute and deliver to the Trustee pursuant hereto
the Certificates.

         (b) Due Qualification. The Transferor is duly qualified to do business
and has obtained all necessary licenses or approvals, in each jurisdiction in
which failure to so qualify or to obtain such licenses or approvals would have a
material adverse effect on the Transferor's ability to perform its obligations
hereunder, under the applicable Supplement or under the Receivables Purchase
Agreements.

         (c) Due Authorization. The execution, delivery and performance of this
Agreement, the applicable Supplement and the Receivables Purchase Agreements by
the Transferor, the execution and delivery by the Transferor to the Trustee of
the Certificates, and the consummation by the Transferor of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, the applicable Supplement and the Receivables
Purchase Agreements, have been duly and validly authorized by all necessary
action on the part of the Transferor and this Agreement and the other agreements
and instruments executed or to be executed in connection herewith have been duly
executed and delivered on behalf of the Transferor.

         (d) Enforceability. Each of this Agreement, the applicable Supplement
and the Receivables Purchase Agreements constitutes a legal, valid and binding
obligation of the Transferor enforceable against the Transferor in accordance
with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable
bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws
affecting creditors' rights generally, now or hereafter in effect, and except as
such enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity (whether
considered in a suit at law or in equity). Each of the Receivables Purchase
Agreements is in full force and effect, and is not subject, as to any party
thereto, to any specific dispute, offset, counterclaim or defense of such party.



                                       23
<PAGE>   30
         (e) No Conflict. The Transferor's execution and delivery of this
Agreement, any Supplement, the Receivables Purchase Agreements and the
Certificates, performance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
any Supplement and the Receivables Purchase Agreements, and fulfillment of the
terms hereof and thereof applicable to the Transferor, do not contravene the
Transferor's limited partnership agreement, conflict with or violate any
Requirements of Law applicable to the Transferor, violate any provision of, or
require any filing (except for the filings under the UCC required by this
Agreement, each of which has been or is being duly made and will be in full
force and effect on the applicable Initial Issuance Date), registration, consent
or approval under, any Requirement of Law presently in effect having
applicability to the Transferor, except for such filings, registrations,
consents or approvals as have already been obtained and are in full force and
effect, conflict with, result in any breach of any of the material terms and
provisions of, or constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a
default under, any indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or
other instrument to which the Transferor is a party or by which it or its
properties or assets are bound, or result in, or require, the creation or
imposition of any Lien upon or with respect to any of the properties now owned
or hereafter acquired by the Transferor other than as specifically contemplated
by this Agreement.

         (f) No Proceedings. There are no proceedings, injunctions, writs,
restraining orders or other orders or investigations pending or, to the best
knowledge of the Transferor, threatened against the Transferor before any
Governmental Authority.

         (g) Consents. No authorization, consent, license, order or approval of,
registration or declaration with any Person or Governmental Authority is
required to be obtained, effected or given by the Transferor in connection with
the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the applicable Supplement, the
Receivables Purchase Agreements, the transfer of the Trust Assets and the
Certificates to the Trust by the Transferor or the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement, the applicable Supplement and the Receivables
Purchase Agreements or the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and the
fulfillment by the Transferor of the terms hereof, except for (i) the filing of
the financing statements or other documents required to have been filed on or
prior to the Transfer Date pursuant to Section 2.01, all of which were so filed
and are in full force and effect, and (ii) the filing from time to time of any
amendments, assignments or continuation statements which may become applicable
pursuant to Section 2.01.

         (h) Liens on Properties. Except as created hereby, and except for Liens
that will be terminated prior to the Transfer



                                       24
<PAGE>   31
Date, there are no Liens of any nature whatsoever on any Receivable. The
Transferor is not a party to any contract, agreement, lease or instrument (other
than this Agreement) the performance of which, either unconditionally or upon
the happening of an event, will result in or require the creation of any Lien on
any Receivable, or otherwise result in a violation of this Agreement.

         (i) Contractual Obligations. (i) The Transferor is not a party to any
indenture, loan or credit agreement or any lease or other agreement or
instrument, or subject to any Requirements of Law, that would have a material
adverse effect on the ability of the Transferor to carry out its obligations
under this Agreement, the applicable Supplement or the Receivables Purchase
Agreements, and (ii) neither the Transferor nor, to the best of the knowledge of
the Transferor, any other party is in default in any respect under or with
respect to the Receivables Purchase Agreements or any other material contract,
agreement, lease or other instrument to which the Transferor is a party.

         (j) Investment Company Act. The Transferor is not an "investment
company", or an "affiliated person" of, or "promoter" or "principal underwriter"
for, or a company controlled by, an "investment company", within the meaning of
and as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act.

         (k) Locations. The chief place of business and chief executive office
of the Transferor, and the office where the Transferor keeps the originals of
its books, records and documents regarding the Receivables and the other Trust
Assets of the Transferor are located at the address of the Transferor specified
in Section 13.05. The Transferor maintains no other business locations.

         (l) Tradenames. The legal name of the Transferor is as set forth on the
signature page of this Agreement and the Transferor has no tradenames,
fictitious names, assumed names or "doing business as" names.

         (m) Subsidiaries. The Transferor has no subsidiaries.

         (n) Information. Each certificate, information, exhibit, financial
statement, document, book, record or report furnished by the Transferor to the
Trustee, each Rating Agency or the Servicer in connection with this Agreement is
accurate in all material respects as of its date.

         (o) Solvency. The Transferor is solvent and will not become insolvent
after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; the
Transferor is currently repaying all of its indebtedness as such indebtedness
becomes due; and, after giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this



                                       25
<PAGE>   32
Agreement, the Transferor will have adequate capital to conduct its business as
presently conducted and as contemplated by this Agreement.

         (p) Compliance. The Transferor has complied, and will comply on each
Initial Issuance Date, in all material respects with all Requirements of Law
with respect to it, its business and properties and all Receivables transferred
to the Trust hereunder and the Contracts related thereto.

         (q) Taxes. The Transferor has filed all material tax returns (federal,
state and local) which it reasonably believes are required to be filed and has
paid or made adequate provision for the payment of all taxes, assessments and
other governmental charges due from the Transferor or is contesting any such
tax, assessment or other governmental charge in good faith through appropriate
proceedings. The Transferor knows of no basis for any material additional tax
assessment for any fiscal year for which adequate reserves have not been
established.

         (r) Use of Proceeds. No proceeds of the issuance of any Certificate
will be used by the Transferor to acquire any security in a transaction that is
subject to Sections 13 and 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, or to purchase or carry any margin security in violation of any
applicable law or regulation.

         (s) Dell Collection Accounts. The Dell Collection Account Banks are the
only institutions holding Dell Collection Accounts for the receipt of payments
from Dell Post-Office Boxes in respect of Receivables (subject to such changes
as may be made from time to time in accordance with Section 4.02(b)) and all
Obligors, and only such Obligors, have been or will be instructed to make
payments only to Dell Collection Accounts and such instructions have not been
modified or revoked by Transferor and such instructions are, to the best
knowledge of the Transferor, in full force and effect.

         (t) Trust Early Amortization Event. As of the Initial Issuance Date for
any Series, no Trust Early Amortization Event and no condition that with the
giving of notice and/or the passage of time would constitute a Trust Early
Amortization Event, has occurred and is continuing.

         (u) ERISA. No Plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) maintained by
the Transferor or any of its ERISA Affiliates (as defined in Section 414(b),
(c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code) has any accumulated funding
deficiency (within the meaning of Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 of the
Internal Revenue Code), whether or not waived. The Transferor and each ERISA
Affiliate of the Transferor has timely made all contributions required to be
made by it to any Plan and Multiemployer Plan (as



                                       26
<PAGE>   33
defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA) to which contributions are or have been
required to be made since January 3, 1991 by the Transferor or such ERISA
Affiliate, and no event requiring notice to the PBGC (as defined in Section
2613.2 of ERISA Regulations) under Section 302(f) of ERISA has occurred and is
continuing or could reasonably be expected to occur with respect to any such
Plan, in any case, that could reasonably be expected to result, directly or
indirectly, in any Lien being imposed on the property of the Transferor or the
payment of any material amount to avoid such Lien. No Plan Event (as defined in
Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to the Transferor or any of its ERISA
Affiliates has occurred or could reasonably be expected to occur that could
reasonably be expected to result, directly or indirectly, in any Lien being
imposed on the property of the Transferor or the payment of any material amount
to avoid such Lien.

         (v) Fraudulent Conveyance. The Transferor is not entering into the
transactions contemplated hereby with the intent of hindering, delaying or
defrauding creditors.

         (w) Limited Purpose. The Transferor engages in no activities other than
those contemplated by the Transaction Documents.

         The representations and warranties set forth in this Section 2.03 shall
survive the Transfer of the Receivables to the Trust and the issuance of the
Certificates, and shall cease and be of no effect upon repayment in full of the
Invested Amount of the last outstanding Series and all other obligations of the
Transferor hereunder. Upon discovery by the Transferor, the Servicer or the
Trustee of a material breach of any of the foregoing representations and
warranties, the party discovering such breach shall give prompt written notice
to the other parties and to any Enhancement Provider. The Trustee's obligations
in respect of any such breach are limited as provided in Section 11.02(g).

         SECTION 2.04. Representations and Warranties of the Transferor Relating
to the Trust Assets. The Transferor hereby represents and warrants to the Trust
as of the date hereof and, by accepting on the Transfer Date the proceeds of
such Transfer, as of the Transfer Date and, except for the representation and
warranty contained in subparagraph (j), by accepting on each date during the
Revolving Period for any Series the proceeds of each Transfer of Receivables, as
of such date, that:

         (a) Valid Transfer. Each of the Receivables Purchase Agreements creates
a valid sale, transfer and assignment to the Transferor of, and the Transferor
is the legal and beneficial owner of, all right, title and interest of the
Originators in and to the Receivables now existing and hereafter created during
the Revolving Period and the proceeds thereof. This Agreement constitutes a
valid transfer and assignment to the Trust of all right, title and



                                       27
<PAGE>   34
interest of the Transferor in and to the Receivables now existing and hereafter
created and purchased by the Transferor pursuant to the Receivables Purchase
Agreements, and in and to all other Trust Assets and the proceeds thereof and
such funds as are required to be deposited pursuant to this Agreement from time
to time in the Concentration Account, the Dell Collection Accounts and any
Series Account, or, if this Agreement does not constitute such a transfer and
assignment, constitutes a valid grant to the Trust of a first priority perfected
"security interest" (as defined in the UCC of the jurisdiction the law of which
governs the perfection of the interest in the Receivables and other Trust Assets
created hereunder) in all right, title and interest of the Transferor in and to
the Receivables now existing and hereafter created and purchased by the
Transferor pursuant to the Receivables Purchase Agreements, and in and to all
other Trust Assets and the proceeds thereof which, in the case of existing
Receivables and the other existing Trust Assets and the proceeds thereof, is
enforceable (except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable
bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws
affecting creditors' rights generally, now or hereafter in effect, and except as
such enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity, whether
considered in a suit at law or in equity) by the Trustee upon execution and
delivery of this Agreement, and which, in the case of the Receivables and all
other Trust Assets hereafter created and the proceeds thereof, will be
enforceable (except as such enforceability may be limited by applicable
bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws
affecting creditors' rights generally, now or hereafter in effect, and except as
such enforceability may be limited by general principles of equity, whether
considered in a suit at law or in equity) by the Trustee upon such creation.
Upon the filing of the appropriate financing statements and, in the case of
Receivables hereafter created and the proceeds thereof, upon the creation
thereof and payment therefor, the Trust shall have an ownership or first
priority perfected security interest in those Trust Assets and the proceeds
thereof in which a security interest may be perfected by filing appropriate
financing statements. The Transferor has caused the Servicer to clearly and
unambiguously mark all its computer records and all its microfiche storage
files, if any, regarding such Receivables as the property of the Trust and shall
cause the Servicer to maintain such records in a manner such that the Trust's
perfected interest of first priority in the Receivables shall not be adversely
affected in any material respect.

         (b) No Claim or Interest. Except as otherwise provided in this
Agreement or any applicable Supplement, neither the Transferor nor any Person
claiming through or under the Transferor has any claim to or interest in the
Concentration Account, the Dell Collection Accounts or any Series Account. Each
Receivable and the Collections with respect thereto has been or will be
transferred to the Trust free and clear of any adverse claim or interest of any



                                       28
<PAGE>   35
other Person (other than disputes with Obligors in the ordinary course of
business or in connection with an Insolvency Event of the related Obligor) not
holding through the Trust.

         (c) Outstanding Balance; Net Receivables Balance. As of the Initial
Issuance Date for any Series, the Net Receivables Balance is at least equal to
the sum of (i) the aggregate of the Loss and Dilution Reserves for all
outstanding Series, (ii) the aggregate of the Yield/Fee Reserves for all
outstanding Series and (iii) the Trust Invested Amount (computed as if reduced
by (A) the aggregate amount of Cure Funds held in the Cure Accounts of all
outstanding Series and (B) funds allocated to the Trust Partial Amortization
Amount and held in the Concentration Account).

         (d) Liens. Each Receivable and all other Trust Assets have been
Transferred to the Trust free and clear of any Lien except as created hereby or
by the Receivables Purchase Agreements.

         (e) Eligibility. Each Receivable was purchased in accordance with the
terms of the Receivables Purchase Agreements and each Receivable that was
classified as an "Eligible Receivable" by the Transferor in any document or
report delivered hereunder satisfied, at the time of such classification, the
requirements of eligibility contained in the definition of Eligible Receivable;
provided, however, that this representation shall not cover Reconveyed
Receivables.

         (f) Investment Company Act. Each Transfer of Receivables to the Trust
hereunder constitutes a purchase or other acquisition of notes, drafts,
acceptances, open accounts receivable or other obligations representing part or
all of the sales price of merchandise or services within the meaning of Section
3(c)(5) of the Investment Company Act.

         (g) Dell Post-Office Boxes, Dell Collection Accounts and the
Concentration Account. Specified on Schedule I hereto are (i) the Dell
Post-Office Box numbers, (ii) the names, addresses and ABA numbers of all the
Dell Collection Account Banks, together with the account numbers of the Dell
Collection Accounts and the name of a contact person at each Dell Collection
Account Bank and (iii) the name, address and ABA number of the Concentration
Account Bank, together with the account number and the name of a contact person
for the Concentration Account.

         (h) No Rescission. Neither any Receivable transferred hereunder nor any
Contract has been satisfied, subordinated or rescinded or except as disclosed in
writing to the Trustee, amended in any manner and such Receivables have not,
except as permitted hereunder, been compromised, adjusted, extended, satisfied,
subordinated, rescinded or modified.



                                       29
<PAGE>   36
         (i) No Payment. The Transferor has no knowledge of any fact which would
lead it to expect that, when billed, any Receivable transferred hereunder would
not be paid in accordance with its terms when due.

         (j) Offering of Certificates. Neither the Transferor nor any agent
acting on its behalf has, directly or indirectly, offered any Certificate or any
similar security of the Transferor for sale to, or solicited any offer to buy
any Certificate or any similar security of the Transferor from, or otherwise
approached or negotiated with respect thereto, with any Person which, and
neither the Transferor nor any agent acting on its behalf has taken or will take
any action which, would subject the issuance or sale of any Certificate to the
provisions of Section 5 of the Act or to the qualification provisions of any
securities or blue sky law of any applicable jurisdiction.

         In the event of a breach with respect to any Receivable of the
representation and warranty set forth in Section 2.04(e) (a) which cannot be
cured by the Business Day following the first day on which a Responsible Officer
of the Transferor has knowledge thereof and (b) which causes the Net Receivables
Balance to be less than the Required Net Receivables Balance, the Transferor
shall repurchase such Receivable (a "Reconveyed Receivable") from the Trust such
that the payment for such Reconveyed Receivable is sufficient to cause the Net
Receivables Balance to be equal to or greater than the Required Net Receivables
Balance. The Servicer shall deduct the unpaid balance of such Reconveyed
Receivable from the balance of Eligible Receivables in the Trust and on and
after the date of such removal, such Reconveyed Receivable shall not be included
in the calculation of the Net Receivables Balance. As payment for such
Reconveyed Receivable, the Transferor shall make or cause to be made a deposit
in the Cure Accounts of each outstanding Series in immediately available funds
in an amount equal to the aggregate of the unpaid principal balance of such
Reconveyed Receivable. The Transferor shall make such deposit, or cause such
deposit to be made, by the close of business on the Business Day following the
day a Responsible Officer of the Transferor obtains knowledge of the existence
of such Reconveyed Receivable. Such deposit shall be considered payment in full
for such Reconveyed Receivable during the Collection Period in which such
payment occurs. Collections related to Reconveyed Receivables shall be deposited
by the Trustee to the Transferor's Account. At the expense of the Servicer or
the Transferor, the Trustee shall execute such documents and instruments of
transfer or assignment as shall be prepared by the Transferor or the Servicer,
and shall take such other actions as shall reasonably be requested by the
Transferor, to effect the removal of such Reconveyed Receivable from the Trust
pursuant to this paragraph. Upon removal of a Reconveyed Receivable from the
Trust, the Trust shall automatically and without further action be deemed to
transfer, assign, set-over and otherwise convey to or upon the order of the
Transferor,



                                       30
<PAGE>   37
without recourse, representation or warranty, all the right, title and interest
of the Trust in and to such Reconveyed Receivable and Collections with respect
thereto and all proceeds thereof. The obligation of the Transferor set forth in
this paragraph shall constitute the sole remedy respecting any breach of the
representations and warranties set forth in this Section 2.04(e) with respect to
such Receivable available to the Investor Certificateholders (or the Trustee on
behalf of the Investor Certificateholders) or any other Indemnified Party.

         The representations and warranties set forth in this Section 2.04 shall
survive the Transfer of the Receivables to the Trust and the issuance of the
Certificates, and shall cease and be of no effect upon repayment in full of the
Invested Amount of the last outstanding Series and all other obligations of the
Transferor hereunder. Upon discovery by the Transferor, the Servicer or the
Trustee of a material breach of any of the foregoing representations and
warranties, the party discovering such breach shall give prompt written notice
to the other parties and to any Enhancement Provider. The Trustee's obligations
in respect of any such breach are limited as provided in Section 11.02(g).

         SECTION 2.05. Affirmative Covenants of the Transferor. The Transferor
hereby covenants and agrees that, until termination of the Trust:

         (a) Compliance with Law. The Transferor shall duly satisfy all
obligations on its part to be fulfilled under or in connection with the
Receivables, will maintain in effect all qualifications required under
Requirements of Law in order to properly purchase and convey the Receivables and
other Trust Assets to the Trust and will comply in all material respects with
all Requirements of Law applicable to the Transferor, its business and
properties and the Trust Assets, where failure to so comply would have a
material adverse effect on the Trust Assets or the ability of the Transferor to
perform in any material respects its obligations hereunder or under the
Receivables Purchase Agreements.

         (b) Preservation of Legal Existence. The Transferor will preserve and
maintain its legal existence, rights, franchises and privileges in the
jurisdiction of its formation, and qualify and remain qualified in each
jurisdiction where the failure to maintain such qualification would materially
and adversely affect (i) the interests of the Trustee or of the Investor
Certificate- holders hereunder or in the Trust Assets, (ii) the collectibility
of any Receivable or (iii) the ability of the Transferor or the Servicer to
perform its obligations hereunder or under the Receivables Purchase Agreements
in any material respects.

         The Transferor shall provide to the Trustee access to the documentation
regarding the Receivables in such cases where the Trustee is required in
connection with the enforcement of the



                                       31
<PAGE>   38
rights of Certificateholders or by applicable statutes or regulations to review
such documentation, such access being afforded without charge but only (i) upon
reasonable written request, (ii) during normal business hours, (iii) subject to
the Transferor's normal security and confidentiality procedures and (iv) at
reasonably accessible offices in the continental United States designated by the
Transferor.

         (c) Keeping of Records and Books of Account. The Transferor will (i)
keep proper books of record and account, which shall be maintained or caused to
be maintained by the Transferor and shall be separate and apart from those of
any Affiliate of the Transferor, in which full and correct entries shall be made
of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Transferor in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied,
(ii) maintain and implement administrative and operating procedures (including,
without limitation, the ability to recreate records evidencing the Receivables
in the event of the destruction of the originals thereof) and (iii) keep and
maintain all documents, books, records and other information reasonably
necessary or advisable for the collection of all Receivables (including, without
limitation, records adequate to permit the daily identification of each new
Receivable and all Collections of and adjustments to each existing Receivable).

         (d) Location of Records. The Transferor will keep its chief place of
business, chief executive office and the office where it keeps the books,
records and documents regarding the Receivables and the other Trust Assets at
the address of the Transferor referred to in Section 13.05.

         (e) Maintenance of Separate Director. The general partner of the
Transferor will maintain at least one independent director who is not an
officer, director, shareholder (holding more than a five percent interest in) or
employee of (i) Dell or (ii) any Affiliate of Dell or the Transferor (other than
the limited partner of the Transferor), or a parent, child, spouse or sibling of
any such Person; provided, however, that if such independent director dies or
resigns, the general partner of the Transferor shall have 10 Business Days to
replace that Person with another independent director. The general partner of
the Transferor will not, without the consent of such independent director,
acquiesce, petition or otherwise invoke the process of any Governmental
Authority for the purpose of commencing or sustaining a case against the
Transferor under any federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or
appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator or
other similar official of the Transferor or any substantial part of its property
or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of the affairs of the Transferor.



                                       32
<PAGE>   39
         (f)   Payment of Taxes, Etc. The Transferor will pay promptly when due
all taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or any
Trust Asset, or in respect of its income or profits therefrom, and any and all
claims of any kind, except that no such amount need be paid if (i) such
nonpayment could not reasonably be expected to subject any Indemnified Party to
civil or criminal penalty or liability or involve any risk of the sale,
forfeiture or loss of any of the property, rights or interests covered hereunder
or under the Receivables Purchase Agreements, (ii) the charge or levy is being
contested in good faith through appropriate proceedings and (iii) the obligation
to pay such amount is adequately reserved against in accordance with and to the
extent required by generally accepted accounting principles.

         (g)   Reporting Requirements. The Transferor will:

         (i)   within one Business Day after a Responsible Officer obtains
     knowledge of the occurrence of any Trust Early Amortization Event, the
     commencement of a Partial Amortization Period or Cure Period or any event
     which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute
     a Trust Early Amortization Event, notify (either orally or in writing) the
     Trustee of such occurrence;

         (ii)  as soon as possible and in any event (A) within three Business
     Days after a Responsible Officer obtains knowledge of the occurrence of any
     Trust Early Amortization Event, the commencement of a Partial Amortization
     Period or Cure Period, or any event which, with the giving of notice or
     lapse of time or both, would constitute a Trust Early Amortization Event,
     furnish to the Trustee and each Rating Agency the written statement of a
     Responsible Officer setting forth details of such Trust Early Amortization
     Event, the commencement of such Partial Amortization Period or Cure Period
     or such event and the action which the Transferor has taken and proposes to
     take with respect thereto, and (B) within three Business Days after a
     Responsible Officer obtains knowledge thereof, give written notice to the
     Trustee and each Rating Agency of any other event, development or
     information which is reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect
     the ability of the Transferor to perform its obligations under this
     Agreement or the Receivables Purchase Agreements;

         (iii) promptly, from time to time, furnish to the Trustee such other
     information, documents, records or reports regarding the Receivables, the
     other Trust Assets or the condition or operations, financial or otherwise,
     of the Transferor as the Trustee may from time to time reasonably request;


                                       33
<PAGE>   40
         (iv) as soon as practicable and in any event not later than the later
     of (A) 50 days after the close of each of its first three fiscal quarters
     and (B) five days after the report of Dell on Form 10-Q is required to be
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (taking into account any
     extensions), deliver to the Trustee and each Rating Agency its unaudited
     financial statements (including balance sheets as of the end of such
     period, related revenue and expense statements, and a statement of cash
     flows) (subject to normal year-end adjustments), certified by the Chief
     Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Transferor and
     prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
     consistently applied; and

         (v)  as soon as practicable and in any event not later than the later
     of (A) 100 days after the close of each of its fiscal years and (B) 10 days
     after the report of Dell on Form 10-K is required to be filed with the
     Securities and Exchange Commission (taking into account any extensions),
     deliver to the Trustee and each Rating Agency its audited financial
     statements (including balance sheets as of the end of such period, related
     revenue and expense statements, and a statement of cash flows) certified by
     Independent Public Accountants and prepared in accordance with generally
     accepted accounting principles consistently applied.

         (h) Receivables Purchase Agreements. The Transferor will at its expense
timely perform and comply in all material respects with all provisions,
covenants and other promises required to be observed by it under the Receivables
Purchase Agreements, maintain the Receivables Purchase Agreements in full force
and effect, enforce its rights under the Receivables Purchase Agreements
substantially in accordance with the terms thereof and comply with its
obligations under all Contracts and invoices giving rise to Receivables. The
Transferor shall, within one Business Day after a Responsible Officer obtains
knowledge of the occurrence of any Termination Event or any event which, with
the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a Termination
Event, notify (either orally or in writing) the Trustee of such occurrence. The
Transferor shall promptly furnish to the Trustee copies of any notices, reports
or certificates given or delivered to the Transferor under the Receivables
Purchase Agreements.

         (i) UCC Opinion. The Transferor shall deliver to the Trustee, on or
before April 30 of each year, beginning with April 30, 1996, an Opinion of
Counsel to the Transferor (who may be counsel employed by the Transferor or an
Affiliate of the Transferor), dated as of a date subsequent to the end of the
immediately preceding fiscal year, substantially to the effect that, in the
opinion of such counsel, either (A) such action has been taken with respect to
the recording, registering, filing, rerecording, re-registering and re-filing of
financing statements,



                                       34
<PAGE>   41
continuation statements or other instructions or documents as is necessary to
continue the perfection of the interests of the Trustee in and to the
Receivables conveyed hereby (to the same extent as such interest was perfected
on the Transfer Date with respect to the Receivables then owned by the
Transferor) and reciting the details of such action or referring to prior
Opinions of Counsel in which such details are given or (B) no such action is
necessary to continue the perfection of such interests.

         (j) Further Action. The Transferor shall, from time to time, execute
and deliver to the Trustee any instruments, financing or continuation statements
or other writings reasonably necessary to maintain the perfection or priority of
the Trustee's ownership or security interest in the Receivables and the
Collections under the UCC or other applicable law. The Transferor shall, from
time to time, execute and deliver to the Obligors on the Receivables any bills,
statements and letters or other writings necessary to carry out the terms and
provisions of this Agreement and to facilitate the collection of the Receivables
in a manner consistent with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual.

         SECTION 2.06. Negative Covenants of the Transferor. The Transferor
hereby further covenants that, unless it shall have received the written consent
of a Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series and the Rating Agency
Condition shall have been satisfied, until termination of the Trust:

         (a) No Liens. Except for the Transfer hereunder and the security
interest granted pursuant to Section 2.01(a), the Transferor will not sell,
pledge, assign or transfer any Receivable or any interest therein or any other
Trust Asset to any other Person, or grant, create, incur, assume or suffer to
exist any Lien on, any Trust Asset or any other property or asset of the
Transferor (other than the Transferor Certificate, any Supplemental Certificate
and funds deposited to the Transferor's Account pursuant to the applicable
Supplement or the Transferor Certificate), whether now existing or hereafter
created, or any interest therein, and the Transferor shall defend the right,
title and interest of the Trust in and to the Trust Assets, whether now existing
or hereafter created, against all claims of third parties claiming through or
under the Transferor.

         (b) Activities of the Transferor. The Transferor will not engage in,
enter into or be a party to any business, activity or transaction of any kind
other than the businesses, activities and transactions contemplated and
authorized by this Agreement or the Receivables Purchase Agreements or any
document related hereto or thereto or incidental to its ability to carry out its
obligations under such agreements.

         (c) Indebtedness. Except for the Subordinated Notes, the Transferor
will not create, incur or assume any indebtedness


                                       35
<PAGE>   42
(other than operating expenses incurred in the performance of or incidental to
its obligations under this Agreement which shall not exceed $50,000 per annum)
or sell or transfer any receivables to a trust or other Person which issues
securities in respect of any such receivables.

         (d) Guarantees. Except as provided herein, the Transferor will not
become or remain liable, directly or indirectly, in connection with any
indebtedness or other liability of any other Person, whether by guarantee,
endorsement (other than endorsements of negotiable instruments for deposit or
collection in the ordinary course of business), agreement to purchase or
repurchase, agreement to supply or advance funds, or otherwise.

         (e) Investments. The Transferor will not make or suffer to exist any
loans or advances to, or extend any credit to, or make any investments (by way
of transfer of property, contributions to capital, purchase of stock or
securities or evidences of indebtedness, acquisition of the business or assets,
or otherwise) in, any Affiliate or any other Person except for purchases of
Receivables pursuant to the terms of the Receivables Purchase Agreements,
investments in Eligible Investments in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement and holding the Transferor Certificate.

         (f) Extension or Amendment of Receivables. The Transferor will not
extend, amend or otherwise modify (or consent or fail to object to any such
extension, amendment or modification by the Servicer), except as permitted in
Section 3.01(c), the terms of any Receivable, or amend, modify or waive (or
consent or fail to object to any such amendment, modification or waiver by the
Servicer) any payment term or condition of any invoice related thereto (other
than as provided in the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual) if the effect of
such amendment, modification or waiver would impair the collectibility or delay
the payment of any then existing Receivable beyond 60 days from the date of the
invoice. The Transferor will not rescind or cancel, or permit the rescission or
cancellation of, any Receivable except as ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this Section 2.06(f), each of the Transferor and the Servicer may
extend, amend, modify, cancel or rescind (and the Transferor need not object to
any such action by the Servicer) any Diluted Receivable in connection with a
valid dispute; provided, however, that such amendment, modification,
cancellation or rescission shall not have a material adverse effect on the
interests of the Certificateholders.

         (g) Change in Legal Name. The Transferor will not (i) make any change
to its legal name, identity or business structure in any manner or chief
executive office or use any tradenames, fictitious names, assumed names or
"doing business as" names unless, prior to the effective date of any such name
change, change in chief executive office, or use, the Transferor delivers to the



                                       36
<PAGE>   43
Trustee such financing statements (Forms UCC-l and UCC-3) executed by the
Transferor which the Trustee may reasonably request to reflect such name change,
change in chief executive office, or use, together with such other documents and
instruments that the Trustee may reasonably request in connection therewith or
(ii) change its jurisdiction of organization unless the Trustee shall have
received from the Transferor (A) written notice of such change at least 45 days
prior to the effective date thereof, and (B) prior to the effective date
thereof, if requested by the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel, in form and
substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, as to such organization and
the Transferor's valid existence and good standing and the continued perfection
of the interests of the Trustee in and to the Receivables conveyed hereby (to
the same extent as such interest was perfected on the Transfer Date with respect
to the Receivables then owned by the Transferor).

         (h) Receivables Purchase Agreements. The Transferor will not (i) cancel
or terminate the Receivables Purchase Agreements or consent to or accept any
cancellation or termination thereof, (ii) amend or otherwise modify any term or
condition of the Receivables Purchase Agreements or give any consent, waiver or
approval thereunder, (iii) waive any default under or breach of the Receivables
Purchase Agreements or (iv) take any other action under the Receivables Purchase
Agreements not contemplated or required by the terms thereof.

         (i) Organization. Except as permitted by Section 2.06(k), the
Transferor will not amend its limited partnership agreement.

         (j) Maintenance of Separate Existence. The Transferor will not (i) fail
to do all things necessary to maintain its existence as a limited partnership
separate and apart from the Servicer, Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales
L.P., Dell, any Affiliate of Dell, and any Affiliate of the Transferor
including, without limitation, conducting business correspondence in its own
name and maintaining appropriate and separate books, records and financial
statements; (ii) suffer any limitation on the authority of its own partners and
officers to conduct its business and affairs in accordance with their
independent business judgment, or authorize or suffer any Person other than its
own partners and officers to act on its behalf with respect to matters (other
than matters customarily delegated to others under powers of attorney) for which
a limited partnership's own partners and officers would customarily be
responsible; (iii) fail to (A) maintain or cause to be maintained by an agent of
the Transferor under the Transferor's control physical possession of all its
books and records, (B) maintain capitalization adequate for the conduct of its
business, (C) account for and manage its liabilities separately from those of
any other Person, including, without limitation, payment of all payroll and
other administrative expenses and taxes from its own assets, (D) segregate and
identify separately all of its money and



                                       37
<PAGE>   44
assets from those of any other Person (including, but not limited to,
maintaining separate bank accounts in its own name), and (E) maintain offices
through which its business is conducted separate from those of the Servicer,
Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P., Dell, any Affiliate of Dell and any
Affiliate of the Transferor (other than the general partner of the Transferor)
(provided that, to the extent that the Transferor and the general partner of the
Transferor, on the one hand, and any of its Affiliates have offices in the same
location, there shall be a fair and appropriate allocation of overhead costs and
expenses among them, each such entity shall bear its fair share of such costs
and expenses and each such office shall be conspicuously identified as the
office of such entity); (iv) commingle its money or other assets with those of
the Servicer, Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P., Dell, any Affiliate
of Dell or any Affiliate of the Transferor, or use its funds for other than the
Transferor's uses; (v) fail to (A) maintain its books, financial statements,
accounting records and other business documents and records complete and
separate from those of the Servicer, Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales
L.P., Dell or any other entity, (B) act solely in its legal name and through its
authorized officers and agents or the authorized officers and agents of its
general partner, (C) make investments directly or by brokers engaged and paid by
the Transferor or its agents, (D) separately manage its liabilities from those
of the Servicer, Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P., Dell or any
Affiliate of Dell and pay its own liabilities, including all administrative
expenses, from its own separate assets (provided that, to the extent employees
of the Transferor participate in pension, insurance and other benefit plans of
Dell or any Affiliate thereof, the Transferor will reimburse Dell or such
Affiliate, as the case may be, for an appropriate share of the costs thereof),
(E) pay from its assets all obligations and indebtedness of any kind incurred by
it and (F) abide by all legal formalities, including the maintenance of current
partnership records; (vi) assume the liabilities of the Servicer, Dell Marketing
L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P., Dell or any Affiliate of Dell; (vii) guarantee the
liabilities or securities of the Servicer, Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct
Sales L.P., Dell or any Affiliate of Dell; (viii) be involved in the day-to-day
management of the Servicer, Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. or Dell;
(ix) act as agent of Dell Marketing L.P. or Dell Direct Sales L.P. or allow Dell
Marketing L.P. or Dell Direct Sales L.P. to act as its agent; (x) make any
advances to Dell Marketing L.P. or Dell Direct Sales L.P.; (xi) acting through
its general partner, have insufficient officers and personnel to conduct its
business and operations; (xii) enter into business transactions with any of its
Affiliates unless the terms are not more or less favorable to the Transferor in
any material respect than terms and conditions available at the time to the
Transferor for comparable transactions with unaffiliated persons and a majority
of the Board of Directors of the general partner of the Transferor including
each director who is an independent director approve the



                                       38
<PAGE>   45
transaction; (xiii) if the Transferor is included within the consolidated
financial statements of Dell or any Affiliate thereof, fail to disclose in a
footnote in the financial reports required by Section 2.05(g) the existence of
the Transferor as a separate legal entity and the participation of the
Transferor in the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents or
(xiv) fail to establish investment guidelines and criteria by a majority of the
Board of Directors of its general partner including at least one director who is
an independent director.

         (k) Ownership; Merger. The Transferor will not, unless the Rating
Agency Condition is satisfied, (i) admit any partner (other than its current
partners) or permit either of its current partners to transfer all or any
portion of its partnership interest in the Transferor to any Person (other than
the other current partner), or enter into any transaction of merger or
consolidation, or convey or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its
assets (except as contemplated herein) or (ii) terminate, liquidate or dissolve
itself (or suffer any termination, liquidation or dissolution), or (iii) acquire
or be acquired by any Person, except indirectly in connection with a
consolidation or merger of Dell with any of its Controlled Affiliates, in
connection with which the Trustee shall have received an Opinion of Counsel,
which counsel shall not be an employee of the Transferor, Dell or any of their
respective Affiliates, that such consolidation or merger does not affect the
separate existence of Transferor.

         (l) ERISA. The Transferor shall promptly give the Trustee notice of the
following events, as soon as possible and in any event within 30 days after a
Responsible Officer of the Transferor obtains knowledge thereof: (i) the
occurrence or expected occurrence of any material Reportable Event with respect
to any Plan to which the Transferor or any of its ERISA Affiliates contributed,
or any withdrawal from, or the termination, reorganization or Insolvency Event
of any Multiemployer Plan to which the Transferor or any of its ERISA Affiliates
contributes or to which contributions have been required to be made by the
Transferor or such ERISA Affiliate since January 3, 1991 or (ii) the institution
of proceedings or the taking of any other action by the PBGC or the Transferor
or any of its ERISA Affiliates or any such Multiemployer Plan with respect to
the withdrawal from, or the termination, reorganization or Insolvency Event of,
any such Plan or Multiemployer Plan.

         SECTION 2.07. Addition and Removal of Originators. (a) At any time
following the Transfer Date, the Transferor may designate any Affiliate of Dell
or any division of (1) Dell Marketing L.P., (2) Dell Direct Sales L.P. or (3)
any other Affiliate of Dell as an Originator (an "Additional Originator")
provided that the following conditions are satisfied: (A) either (i) the average
of the aggregate principal balance of Receivables generated by such Additional
Originator as of the last day of each



                                       39
<PAGE>   46
of the immediately preceding twelve months does not exceed 5% of the average of
the aggregate principal balance of Eligible Receivables owned by the Trust as of
the last day of each of such twelve months or (ii) the Rating Agency Condition
shall have been satisfied, (B) such Additional Originator shall be subject to
the provisions of the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, (C) Dell Marketing L.P. or Dell
Direct Sales L.P., as the case may be, shall guarantee all obligations of such
Additional Originator pursuant to the Transaction Documents, (D) all opinions
with respect to any Originator given on the Initial Issuance Date shall be
affirmed on the date the Transferor designates an Additional Originator and (E)
the Transferor shall not designate more than two Additional Originators in any
twelve-month period unless the Rating Agency Condition is satisfied.

         (b) The Transferor may cause any Originator to no longer be designated
as an "Originator" (a "Removed Originator"), and the Transferor shall cease
purchasing Receivables from such Removed Originator, provided that (i) the
average of the aggregate principal balance of Receivables generated by such
Removed Originator as of the last day of each of the immediately preceding
twelve months does not exceed 5% of the average of the aggregate principal
balance of Eligible Receivables owned by the Trust as of the last day of each of
such twelve months, (ii) the Transferor provides timely written notice of such
change in designation to each Rating Agency, (iii) the Rating Agency Condition
shall have been satisfied and (iv) the Transferor shall have delivered to the
Trustee and any Enhancement Provider an Officer's Certificate stating that the
Transferor reasonably believes that the removal of such Removed Originator will
not result in the occurrence of a Trust Early Amortization Event.

         (c) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.07 to the contrary, no
Originator shall be designated as an Additional Originator or a Removed
Originator on any day if, as of such day, the aggregate cumulative amount of
Receivables generated by Additional Originators or Removed Originators,
including any Originator to be designated as an Additional Originator or a
Removed Originator on such day, is greater or less than the aggregate principal
balance of Eligible Receivables owned by the Trust as of the day prior to such
removal or addition by 10% or more.

         (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 2.07 to the contrary, a
Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series may consent to changes in the
foregoing subsections (a), (b) and (c) hereof, provided that the Rating Agency
Condition has been satisfied and notice has been given to the Trustee.



                                       40
<PAGE>   47
                                   ARTICLE III

                   ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICING OF RECEIVABLES

         SECTION 3.01. Acceptance of Appointment and Other Matters Relating to
the Servicer. (a) Dell USA L.P. agrees to act as the Servicer for the benefit of
the Certificateholders under this Agreement (subject to Article X) and the
Certificateholders by their acceptance of the Certificates consent to Dell USA
L.P. so acting as Servicer.

         (b) The Servicer shall (subject to Article X) enforce its respective
rights and interests in, to and under the Receivables and the other Trust Assets
on behalf of the Trust. The Servicer shall service, administer and collect the
Receivables and, in connection therewith, the Servicer shall take or cause to be
taken all such actions as may be necessary or advisable to collect each
Receivable from time to time, all in accordance with applicable laws, rules and
regulations, with reasonable care and diligence, and in accordance with the
Credit Policy and Procedures Manual.

         (c) Provided that no Trust Early Amortization Event or Servicer Default
shall have occurred and be continuing, and no Partial Amortization Period shall
have commenced and be continuing, the Servicer may, in accordance with the
Credit Policy and Procedures Manual, extend the maturity, adjust the Outstanding
Balance, or otherwise modify the terms of any Defaulted Receivable or amend,
modify or waive any payment term or condition of any invoice related thereto,
all as it may determine to be appropriate to maximize Collections thereof;
provided that, for all purposes hereunder, any such Receivable shall remain a
"Defaulted Receivable" in the amount of its Outstanding Balance (without giving
effect to any such extension, adjustment, amendment, modification or waiver)
until paid or charged off as uncollectible.

         (d) The Servicer shall have full power and authority, acting alone or
through any party properly designated by it hereunder, to do any and all things
in connection with such servicing and administration which it may deem necessary
or desirable, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the
applicable Supplement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing and
subject to Section 10.01 and any limitations provided in any Supplement, the
Servicer or its designee is hereby authorized and empowered (i) to instruct the
Trustee to make withdrawals and payments from the Concentration Account, subject
to the limitations set forth in Section 4.02(a) and as otherwise set forth in
this Agreement, (ii) to instruct the Trustee to make withdrawals and payments
from the Series Accounts, subject to the limitations set forth in the related
Supplement and as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, (iii) to instruct the
Trustee to take any action required or permitted under any Enhancement, (iv) to



                                       41
<PAGE>   48
make any filings, reports, notices, applications and registrations with, and to
seek any consents or authorizations from, the Securities and Exchange Commission
and any state securities authority on behalf of the Trust as may be necessary or
advisable to comply with any federal or state securities laws or reporting
requirements, and (v) only (A) with the prior consent of a Majority in Interest
of each outstanding Series and (B) upon satisfaction of the Rating Agency
Condition, to subcontract with any other Person (excluding the Transferor) (at
the Servicer's expense) for servicing, administering or collecting the
Receivables; provided that such Person shall not become Servicer hereunder and
the Servicer shall remain liable for the performance of the duties and
obligations of the Servicer pursuant to the terms hereof. The Trustee shall
execute any documents furnished by the Servicer which are necessary or
appropriate to enable the Servicer to carry out its servicing and administrative
duties hereunder and acceptable in form and substance to the Trustee. The
Trustee shall, upon the written request of the Servicer, furnish the Servicer
with any documents then in the Trustee's possession which are necessary or
appropriate to enable the Servicer to carry out its servicing and administrative
duties hereunder.

         (e) The Servicer shall not, and no Successor Servicer shall be
obligated to, use separate servicing procedures, offices, employees or accounts
for servicing the Receivables from the procedures, offices, employees and
accounts used by the Servicer or such Successor Servicer, as the case may be, in
connection with servicing other trade receivables or its business in general.

         (f) The relationship of the Servicer (and of any Successor Servicer
under this Agreement) to the Trustee under this Agreement is intended by the
parties to be that of an independent contractor to or with the Trust and shall
not be construed to be that of a joint venturer, partner, or agent, such that
the acts of the Servicer (or any Successor Servicer) are in any way vicariously
attributable to the Trustee in its individual capacity prior to such time as the
Trustee may serve as Servicer pursuant to the provisions of Article X.

         SECTION 3.02. Servicing Compensation; Servicer's Expenses.

         (a) Compensation. As full compensation for its servicing activities
hereunder, the Servicer shall be entitled to receive a monthly servicing fee
(the "Servicing Fee") for each Collection Period (or portion thereof) from the
Initial Issuance Date for each Series until the termination of the Amortization
Period, payable in arrears on the Distribution Date with respect to such
Collection Period (or portion), in an amount equal to the aggregate of the
Series Servicing Fees specified in the Supplements. The Servicing Fee shall be
payable only from Investor Collections pursuant to, and subject to the priority
of payment set



                                       42
<PAGE>   49
forth in, the Supplements; provided, however, that if the Trustee is appointed
Successor Servicer, and Investor Collections are insufficient to pay the
Servicing Fee in full, the Trustee may seek payment of the Servicing Fee from
Dell under the Parent Undertaking Agreement.

         (b) Expenses. The Servicer's expenses include the Trustee's Fee (to the
extent not paid from Collections) and all documented expenses and liabilities
(other than any liability of the Trust with respect to any amount payable solely
out of Collections or any personal liability of the Trust to repay the
Certificates) of the Trust not expressly stated herein to be for the account of
the Certificateholders, including without limitation expenses related to
enforcement of the Receivables and the other amounts due to the Trustee pursuant
to Section 11.05, the reasonable fees and disbursements of the Independent
Public Accountants in connection with this Agreement, any Supplement and the
Receivables Purchase Agreements, and other fees and documented expenses
including but not limited to the costs of filing UCC continuation statements;
provided that in no event shall the Servicer be liable for any federal, state or
local income or franchise tax, or any interest or penalties with respect
thereto, assessed on the Trust, the Trustee or the Certificateholders except as
expressly provided herein. Such expenses shall be payable first, by the Servicer
out of the Servicing Fee, second, to the extent not paid by the Servicer, by the
Transferor for its own account, third, to the extent the Transferor shall fail
to pay any of such expenses, by the Servicer for its own account, and the
Servicer shall not be entitled to any payment for any such expenses other than
the Servicing Fee and reimbursement from the Transferor, and fourth, to the
extent not paid by the Servicer or the Transferor, by Dell pursuant to the
Parent Undertaking Agreement. In addition, to the extent not paid from the
Servicing Fee, the Transferor shall pay for its own account, and, if the
Transferor fails to do so, the Servicer will pay, all fees and expenses incurred
by or on behalf of the Servicer in connection with its servicing activities
hereunder (including without limitation expenses related to enforcement of the
Receivables and the costs of a Service Transfer) or otherwise in connection
herewith (including without limitation the fees and expenses set forth above),
and the Servicer will not be entitled to any fee or other payment from, or claim
on, any of the Trust Assets (other than the Servicing Fee and reimbursement from
the Transferor). The Transferor's and Servicer's covenant to pay the expenses
and disbursements provided in this Section 3.02(b) shall survive the termination
of the Trust.

         SECTION 3.03. Representations and Warranties of the Servicer. Dell USA
L.P., as Servicer, hereby represents and warrants, as of the date hereof and as
of the Transfer Date, and, with respect to any Series, as of the date of the
related Supplement and the related Initial Issuance Date, in each case unless
otherwise stated in such Supplement:



                                       43
<PAGE>   50
         (a) Organization. The Servicer is a limited partnership duly organized
and validly existing under the applicable laws of Texas and has, in all material
respects, full power, authority and legal right to own its properties and
conduct its business including its receivables servicing business as such
properties are presently owned and as such business is presently conducted and
as is proposed to be conducted under this Agreement, any Supplement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement, and to execute, deliver and perform its obligations
under this Agreement, any Supplement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement.

         (b) Due Qualification. The Servicer is duly qualified to do business
(or is exempt from such requirements), and has obtained all necessary licenses
and approvals, in each jurisdiction in which the servicing of the Receivables in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement, any Supplement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement requires such qualification, except where failure to
so qualify or to obtain such licenses or approvals would not have a material
adverse effect upon the Certificateholders or on its ability to perform its
obligations as Servicer under this Agreement, any Supplement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement.

         (c) Due Authorization. The Servicer's execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement, each Supplement, the Cross-Guarantee Agreement
and the other agreements and instruments executed or to be executed by the
Servicer as contemplated hereby or thereby, and the consummation of the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each Supplement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement, have been duly and validly authorized by all
necessary action on the part of the Servicer.

         (d) Binding Obligation. Each of this Agreement, each Supplement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of
the Servicer enforceable against it in accordance with its terms except as such
enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, reorganization,
insolvency, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights
generally, now and hereafter in effect, and except as such enforceability may be
limited by general principles of equity (whether considered in a suit at law or
in equity).

         (e) No Conflict. The Servicer's execution and delivery of this
Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, performance of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, each Supplement and the Cross-Guarantee
Agreement, and fulfillment of the terms hereof and thereof applicable to the
Servicer, do not conflict with or violate in any material respects any
Requirements of Law applicable to the Servicer, or conflict with, result in any
breach of any of the material terms and provisions of, or constitute (with or
without notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, any material
indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of trust or



                                       44
<PAGE>   51
other instrument to which the Servicer is a party or by which it or its
properties are bound.

         (f) No Proceedings. There are no proceedings or investigations pending
or, to the best knowledge of the Servicer, threatened against the Servicer
before any Governmental Authority (i) asserting the illegality, invalidity or
unenforceability, or seeking any determination or ruling that would affect the
legality, binding effect, validity or enforceability, of this Agreement, any
Supplement or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement, (ii) seeking to prevent the
issuance of the Certificates or the consummation of any of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, any Supplement or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement,
or (iii) seeking any determination or ruling that is reasonably likely to
materially and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of the
Servicer or the performance by the Servicer of its obligations under this
Agreement, any Supplement or the Cross-Guarantee Agreement.

         (g) No Consents. No authorization, consent, license, order or approval
of or registration or declaration with any Person or Governmental Authority is
required to be obtained, effected or given by the Servicer in connection with
the execution and delivery of this Agreement, any Supplement or the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement by the Servicer or the performance of its obligations
hereunder and thereunder.

         (h) Dell Post-Office Boxes, Dell Collection Accounts and the
Concentration Account. Specified on Schedule I hereto are (i) the Dell
Post-Office Box numbers, (ii) the names, addresses and ABA numbers of all the
Dell Collection Account Banks, together with the account numbers of the Dell
Collection Accounts and the name of a contact person at each Dell Collection
Account Bank and (iii) the name, address and ABA number of the Concentration
Account Bank, together with the account number and the name of a contact person
for the Concentration Account.

         (i) Payment Instructions. The Servicer has notified the Obligor on each
Receivable to make payments on such Receivable to either one of the Dell
Post-Office Boxes or one of the Dell Collection Accounts.

         (j) Daily Reports and Determination Date Certificates. Each Daily
Report and Determination Date Certificate delivered by the Servicer pursuant to
this Agreement shall be true and correct in all material respects as of the date
such report or certificate is delivered.

         (k) Servicer Default. No Servicer Default has occurred or is
continuing.



                                       45
<PAGE>   52
         (l) Trust Early Amortization Event. No Trust Early Amortization Event
has occurred or is continuing.

         Each Successor Servicer, by acceptance of its appointment hereunder,
shall, as of the date of such appointment and, with respect to any Series issued
after such date, as of the date of the related Supplement and the related
Initial Issuance Date, make substantially similar representations and warranties
as those contained above.

         The representations and warranties set forth in this Section 3.03 shall
survive the Transfer of the Receivables to the Trust and the issuance of the
Certificates, and shall cease and be of no effect upon repayment in full of the
Invested Amount of the last outstanding Series and all other obligations of the
Transferor hereunder. Upon a discovery by the Transferor, the Servicer or the
Trustee of a material breach of any of the foregoing representations and
warranties, the party discovering such breach shall give prompt written notice
to the other parties. The Trustee's obligations in respect of any such breach
are limited as provided in Section 11.02(g).

         SECTION 3.04. Covenants of the Servicer. The Servicer hereby covenants
and agrees that, until termination of the Trust:

         (a) Change in Accounts. The Servicer will not (i) make any changes to
Schedule I hereto or (ii) amend any instruction to any Obligor or any Dell
Collection Account Bank with respect to any Dell Post-Office Box or Dell
Collection Account or (iii) terminate or substitute any Cure Account, in any
case (A) except as otherwise required or permitted pursuant to Section 4.02 or
the applicable Supplement and (B) unless the Trustee shall have received notice
of such change, amendment, termination or substitution and executed copies of
Dell Collection Account Letters to each new Dell Collection Account Bank.

         (b) Collections. (i) In the event that the Servicer receives any
Collections, the Servicer agrees to hold all such Collections in trust and to
deposit such Collections to the appropriate Collection Account as soon as
practicable, but in no event later than two Business Days after receipt thereof.

         (ii) In the event that any Affiliate of the Servicer receives any
Collections, the Servicer agrees to cause such Affiliate to hold all such
Collections in trust and to cause such Affiliate to deposit such Collections to
the appropriate Collection Account as soon as practicable, but in no event later
than five Business Days after receipt thereof.

         (c) Compliance with Requirements of Law. The Servicer will duly satisfy
in all material respects all obligations on its part to be fulfilled under or in
connection with each Receivable,



                                       46
<PAGE>   53
will maintain in effect all qualifications required under any Requirements of
Law in order to service properly each Receivable and will comply in all material
respects with all other Requirements of Law in connection with servicing each
Receivable.

         (d) Extension or Amendment of Receivables. The Servicer will not
extend, amend or otherwise modify (or consent or fail to object to any such
extension, amendment or modification by the Transferor), except as permitted in
Section 3.01(c), the terms of any Receivable, or amend, modify or waive (or
consent or fail to object to any such amendment, modification or waiver by the
Transferor) any payment term or condition of any invoice related thereto (other
than as provided in the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual) if the effect of
such amendment, modification or waiver would impair the collectibility or delay
the payment of any then existing Receivable beyond 60 days from the date of the
invoice. The Servicer will not rescind or cancel, or permit the rescission or
cancellation of, any Receivable except as ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority. Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this Section 3.04(d), each of the Servicer and the Transferor may
extend, amend, modify, cancel or rescind (and the Servicer need not object to
any such action by the Transferor) any Diluted Receivable in connection with a
valid dispute; provided, however, that such amendment, modification,
cancellation or rescission shall not have a material adverse effect on the
interests of the Certificateholders.

         (e) Protection of Certificateholders' Rights. The Servicer will take no
action which would impair the rights of Certificateholders in any Receivable or
Trust Asset, except as provided in this Agreement.

         (f) Deposits to Concentration Account, any Dell Collection Account or
any Series Account. The Servicer will not deposit or otherwise credit, or cause
to be so deposited or credited, or consent or fail to object to any such deposit
or credit known to it, cash or cash proceeds other than Collections to the
Concentration Account, any Dell Collection Account or any Series Account.

         (g) Receivables Not To Be Evidenced by Promissory Notes. The Servicer
will take no action to cause any Receivable to be evidenced by any "instrument"
(as defined in the UCC of the jurisdiction the law of which governs the
perfection of the interest in such Receivable created hereunder), except in
connection with its enforcement, in which event the Transferor shall deliver
such instrument to the Trustee as soon as reasonably practicable but in no event
more than three Business Days after execution thereof.

         (h) Reporting Requirements. The Servicer will:



                                       47
<PAGE>   54
         (i)   within one Business Day after a Responsible Officer obtains
     knowledge of the occurrence of a Servicer Default or a Trust Early
     Amortization Event, the commencement of a Partial Amortization Period or
     Cure Period or any event which, with the giving of notice or lapse of time
     or both, would constitute a Servicer Default or Trust Early Amortization
     Event, notify (either orally or in writing) the Trustee of such occurrence;

         (ii)  as soon as possible and in any event (A) within three Business
     Days after a Responsible Officer obtains knowledge of the occurrence of a
     Servicer Default or any Trust Early Amortization Event, the commencement of
     a Partial Amortization Period or Cure Period, or any event which, with the
     giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a Servicer
     Default or a Trust Early Amortization Event, furnish to the Trustee and
     each Rating Agency the written statement of a Responsible Officer setting
     forth details of such Servicer Default or Trust Early Amortization Event,
     the commencement of such Partial Amortization Period or Cure Period or such
     event and the action which the Servicer has taken and proposes to take with
     respect thereto, and (B) within three Business Days after a Responsible
     Officer obtains knowledge thereof, give written notice to the Trustee and
     each Rating Agency of any other event, development or information which is
     reasonably likely to materially and adversely affect the ability of the
     Servicer to perform its obligations under this Agreement;

         (iii) promptly, from time to time, furnish to the Trustee such other
     information, documents, records or reports regarding the Receivables, the
     other Trust Assets or the condition or operations, financial or otherwise,
     of the Servicer as the Trustee may from time to time reasonably request;

         (iv)  as soon as practicable and in any event not later than the later
     of (A) 50 days after the close of each of its first three fiscal quarters
     in any fiscal year and (B) five days after the report of Dell on Form 10-Q
     is required to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (taking
     into account any extensions), deliver to the Trustee and each Rating Agency
     its unaudited financial statements (including balance sheets as of the end
     of such period, related revenue and expense statements, and a statement of
     cash flows) (subject to normal year-end adjustments), certified by the
     Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Servicer and
     prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
     consistently applied; and

         (v)   as soon as practicable and in any event not later than the later
     of (A) 100 days after the close of each of its


                                       48
<PAGE>   55
     fourth fiscal quarter in any fiscal year and (B) 10 days after the report
     of Dell on Form 10-K is required to be filed with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission (taking into account any extensions), deliver to the
     Trustee and each Rating Agency its unaudited financial statements
     (including balance sheets as of the end of such period, related revenue and
     expense statements, and a statement of cash flows) certified by the Chief
     Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Servicer and prepared
     in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently
     applied.

         The Servicer shall provide to the Trustee access to the documentation
regarding the Receivables in such cases where the Trustee is required in
connection with the enforcement of the rights of Certificateholders or by
applicable statutes or regulations to review such documentation, such access
being afforded without charge but only (i) upon reasonable request, (ii) during
normal business hours, (iii) subject to the Servicer's normal security and
confidentiality procedures and (iv) at reasonably accessible offices in the
continental United States designated by the Servicer.

         (i) Filing of Continuation Statements. The Servicer shall prepare and
file such continuation statements and any other documents reasonably requested
by the Trustee, Transferor or any of the Certificateholders or which may
otherwise be required by law to fully preserve and protect the interest of the
Trustee, Transferor or any of the Certificateholders hereunder in and to the
Receivables.

         (j) Change in its Credit Policy and Procedures Manual. The Servicer
shall comply with and perform its servicing obligations with respect to the
Receivables in accordance with the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual, except
insofar as any failure to so comply or perform would not adversely affect the
Certificateholders in any material respect. Subject to compliance with all
Requirements of Law, the Transferor or the Servicer, as applicable, may change
the terms and provisions of the Credit Policy and Procedures Manual; provided,
however, that (i) with respect to a material change of collection policies, the
Rating Agency Condition is satisfied with respect thereto and (ii) with respect
to a change of collection procedures, no material adverse effect on any Series
of Certificate would result.

         (k) Notification of Obligors. The Servicer will notify the Obligor on
each Receivable purchased by the Trust on or after the Transfer Date to make
payments on such Receivable to one of the Dell Collection Accounts.

         (l) Modification of Systems. The Servicer agrees, promptly after the
replacement or any material modification of any computer, automation or other
operating systems (in respect of



                                       49
<PAGE>   56
hardware or software) used to provide the Servicer's services as Servicer or to
make any calculations or reports hereunder, to give notice of any such material
replacement or modification to the Trustee.

         (m) Servicer Business Days. No later than December 1 of each year, the
Servicer shall furnish the Trustee with a list of days other than Saturday and
Sunday, on which the Servicer shall be closed during the immediately succeeding
year, except that with respect to the calendar year 1995, the Servicer shall
furnish such list to the Trustee on or before the Transfer Date.

         (n) Keeping of Records and Books of Account. The Servicer shall
maintain and implement administrative and operating procedures (including,
without limitation, the ability to recreate records evidencing the Receivables
in the event of the destruction of the originals thereof), and keep and maintain
all documents, books, microfiche, computer records and other information reason-
ably necessary or advisable for the collection of all the Receiv- ables. Such
documents, books, microfiche, and computer records shall reflect all customary
facts giving rise to the Receivables, all payments and credits with respect
thereto, and the computer records shall be clearly marked to show the interests
of the Trust in the Receivables. The Servicer shall hold on behalf of the Trust
(to the extent of its interest therein) any document evidencing or securing a
Receivable and any Contract related to such Receivable and necessary to the
servicing of such Receivable and the collection thereof in accordance with the
terms of this Agreement. Such holding by the Servicer shall be in trust and
shall be deemed to be the holding thereof by the Trustee for purposes of
perfecting the Trust's rights therein as provided in the UCC.

         (o) Insurance. The Servicer shall use its best efforts to maintain with
a responsible company, and at its own expense, its current commercial crime
insurance as is commercially available at a cost that is not generally regarded
as excessive by industry standards, with coverage on all officers, employees or
other persons acting in any capacity requiring such persons to handle funds,
money, documents or papers relating to the Receivables.

         SECTION 3.05. Reports and Records for the Trustee.

         (a) Daily Records. On each Business Day, the Servicer shall provide by
telecopy to the Trustee, and upon request to any Enhancement Provider and each
Investor Certificateholder, the Daily Report and, to the extent not covered in
the Daily Report, a record setting forth (i) the Collections in respect of the
Receivables processed by the Servicer on the immediately preceding Business Day,
(ii) the amount of Eligible Receivables as of the close of business on the
immediately preceding Business Day and (iii) the Floating Allocation Percentage
for each Series at the close of business on the immediately preceding Business
Day. To the extent



                                       50
<PAGE>   57
that the aggregate Invested Amount of all outstanding Series is zero, and the
Discount Amount specified in the Supplement for each outstanding Series has been
allocated in full, the Servicer shall be obligated to forward the Daily Report
to the Trustee only on the first Business Day of each month and on each
Determination Date or such other date as specified in writing by the Trustee.

         (b) Determination Date Certificate. On or before each Determination
Date with respect to each outstanding Series, the Servicer shall deliver by
telecopy to the Trustee and each Rating Agency and the Trustee shall deliver to
each Investor Certificate- holder a Determination Date Certificate for such
Determination Date.

         SECTION 3.06. Annual Certificate of Servicer. On or before April 30 of
each calendar year, beginning with April 30, 1996, the Servicer shall deliver to
the Trustee, each Rating Agency and each Enhancement Provider an Officer's
Certificate, executed by the chief financial officer of the Servicer,
substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto. A copy of each such certificate
will be sent to each Investor Certificateholder by the Trustee. On or before
April 30, 1996, the Servicer shall deliver to the Rating Agencies a report in
which the Servicer will recalculate, based on a sample of Receivables, the
average period of time which passes between the creation of a Receivable and the
point at which such Receivables becomes a Diluted Receivable. To the extent that
such recalculation indicates a period of time which materially differs from 1.5
months, the Servicer will adjust its calculation of the Class A Dynamic Loss and
Dilution Reserve Percentage and the Class B Dynamic Loss and Dilution Reserve
Percentage under each Supplement, subject to satisfaction of the Rating Agency
Condition.

         SECTION 3.07. Semi-Annual Servicing Report of Independent Public
Accountants. Within 90 days of the Transfer Date and on a semi-annual basis on
or before April 30 and October 31 of each calendar year, beginning with April
30, 1996, the Servicer shall cause the Independent Public Accountants to furnish
a report (addressed to the Trustee) to the Trustee, the Servicer, each Rating
Agency and each Enhancement Provider substantially to the effect set forth in
Exhibit G.

         SECTION 3.08. Tax Treatment. The Transferor has entered into this
Agreement, and the Investor Certificates have been (or will be) issued to and
acquired by the Investor Certificateholders, with the intention that, for
federal, state and local income and franchise tax law purposes, the Investor
Certificates will be indebtedness of the Transferor secured by the Receivables.
The Transferor, by entering into this Agreement, and each Certificate- holder,
by the acceptance of its Certificate, agree to treat the Certificates for
purposes of federal, state and local income and franchise taxes as indebtedness
of the Transferor. Unless either (i) the Trustee or the Servicer shall receive
an Opinion of Counsel



                                       51
<PAGE>   58
based on a change in applicable law occurring after the date hereof that the
Internal Revenue Code requires such a filing or (ii) the Internal Revenue
Service shall determine that the Trust is required to file such a return in
accordance with the foregoing, the Transferor agrees that it will report its
income for such federal, state and local income or franchise taxes on the basis
that it is the owner of the Receivables.

         SECTION 3.09. Notices to Dell USA L.P. In the event that Dell USA L.P.
is no longer acting as Servicer, any Successor Servicer shall deliver or make
available to Dell Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. and the Transferor each
certificate and report required to be delivered thereafter pursuant to Sections
3.05(b), 3.06 and 3.07.

         SECTION 3.10. Adjustments. If the Servicer makes a mistake with respect
to the amount of any Collection and deposits or pays an amount that is less than
or more than the actual amount of such Collection, the Servicer shall
appropriately adjust the amount subsequently deposited into the Trustee's
Account or Transferor's Account or paid to reflect such mistake and send written
notice thereof to the Trustee. Any Receivable in respect of which a dishonored
check is received shall be deemed not to have been paid.

         SECTION 3.11. Securities and Exchange Commission Filings. For so long
as Dell or any of its Affiliates is the Servicer, the Servicer shall deliver or
cause to be delivered to the Trustee, the Investor Certificateholders and each
Rating Agency copies of each report of Dell, the Transferor, Dell USA L.P., Dell
Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. and any other Affiliate of Dell which is
a party to any Transaction Document filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on Forms 10-K and 10-Q promptly after any such filing has been made.



                                       52
<PAGE>   59
                                   ARTICLE IV

                        RIGHTS OF CERTIFICATEHOLDERS AND

                    ALLOCATION AND APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS

         SECTION 4.01. Rights of Certificateholders. (a) The Investor
Certificates shall represent fractional undivided beneficial interests in the
Trust (with respect to each Series, the "Certificateholders' Interest"), which
shall consist of the right to receive, to the extent necessary to make the
required payments with respect to the Investor Certificates of such Series at
the times and in the amounts specified in the related Supplement, the portion of
Collections allocable to Investor Certificateholders of such Series pursuant to
this Agreement and the related Supplement from funds on deposit in the
Concentration Account allocable to Certificateholders of such Series and funds
on deposit in any related Series Account and funds available pursuant to any
related Enhancement (collectively with respect to all Series, the "Aggregate
Certificateholders' Interest"), it being understood that the Investor
Certificates of any Series or Class shall not represent any interest in any
Series Account or Enhancement for the benefit of any other Series or Class. The
Transferor Certificate shall represent the fractional undivided beneficial
interest in the remainder of the Trust Assets not allocated pursuant to this
Agreement or any Supplement to the Aggregate Certificateholders' Interest,
including the right to receive Collections with respect to the Receivables and
other amounts at the times and in the amounts specified in this Agreement or in
any Supplement to be paid to the Holder of the Transferor Certificate (the
"Transferor Interest"); provided, however, that the Transferor Certificate shall
not represent any interest in the Concentration Account, any Dell Collection
Account, any Series Account or any Enhancement, except as specifically provided
in this Agreement or any Supplement.

         (b) The Floating Allocation Percentage for each Series, which is the
percentage that determines the portion of the Aggregate Certificateholders'
Interest allocable to such Series, and the Transferor Percentage, which is the
percentage that determines the Transferor Interest, shall be initially computed
by the Servicer as of the opening of business of the Servicer on the Initial
Issuance Date for the related Series. Thereafter until the commencement of the
Amortization Period or Partial Amortization Period, the Floating Allocation
Percentage for each Series and the Transferor Percentage, and through the
recomputations thereof the Certificateholders' Interest for each Series and the
Transferor Interest, shall be recomputed by the Servicer as of the close of
business of the Servicer on each Business Day. Each of the Certificateholders'
Interests, the Floating Allocation Percentage for each Series, the Transferor
Interest and the Transferor Percentage (i) shall remain constant from the time
as of which any such computation or recomputation is made until the time as of



                                       53
<PAGE>   60
which the next such recomputation, if any, shall be made and (ii) as computed as
of the close of business of the Servicer on the Business Day immediately
preceding the commencement of the Amortization Period or a Partial Amortization
Period, shall remain constant at all times during the Amortization Period or
such Partial Amortization Period.

         SECTION 4.02. Establishment of Concentration Account and Dell
Collection Accounts.

         (a) Concentration Account. On or prior to the Transfer Date, the
Servicer, for the benefit of the Certificateholders, shall establish and
maintain or cause to be established and maintained in the name of the Trustee,
on behalf of the Trust, with an Eligible Institution a segregated trust account
accessible by the Trustee (such account being the "Concentration Account" and
such institution holding such account being the "Concentration Account Bank"),
such account bearing a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited
therein are held for the benefit of the Certificateholders. The Trustee shall
possess all right, title and interest in and to all funds from time to time on
deposit in the Concentration Account and in all proceeds thereof. The
Concentration Account shall be under the sole dominion and control of the
Trustee for the benefit of the Certificateholders. Except as expressly provided
in this Agreement, the Servicer agrees that it shall have no right of setoff or
banker's lien against, and no right to otherwise deduct from, any funds held in
the Concentration Account for any amount owed to it by the Trustee, the Trust or
any Certificateholder. The Servicer shall cause Collections to be deposited into
the Concentration Account by the close of business on the day of receipt thereof
in a Dell Collection Account. The Transferor will cause the Originators to
deposit any Collections received by any of them into a Dell Collection Account
within two Business Days following the Business Day on which such Collections
are so received or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding
Business Day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if and to the extent that funds
that are not Collections are deposited into the Concentration Account, the
Servicer may direct the Trustee to withdraw such funds from the Concentration
Account and deposit them in the Transferor's Account.

         If, at any time, the institution holding the Concentration Account
ceases to be an Eligible Institution, the Servicer, upon obtaining actual
knowledge thereof, for the benefit of the Certificateholders, shall within 30
Business Days (i) establish a new Concentration Account meeting the conditions
specified above with an Eligible Institution, (ii) transfer any cash and/or any
investments held therein or with respect thereto to such new Concentration
Account and (iii) in the case of any new Concentration Account, deliver to all
Dell Collection Account Banks new Dell Collection Account Letters (with copies
thereof to the Trustee) referring to such new Concentration Account, and from
the



                                       54
<PAGE>   61
date such new Concentration Account is established, it shall be the
"Concentration Account". Pursuant to the authority granted to the Servicer in
Section 3.01, the Servicer shall have the power to instruct the Trustee to make
withdrawals and payments from the Concentration Account for the purposes of
carrying out the Servicer's or the Trustee's duties specified in this Agreement.

         Funds on deposit in the Concentration Account or, in the case of funds
on deposit on any Deposit Date or Distribution Date, funds required pursuant to
the applicable Supplement to be deposited to the Trustee's Account or the
Transferor's Account on such date, shall at the direction of the Servicer be
invested by the Trustee or the Eligible Institution maintaining such accounts in
Eligible Investments as instructed by the Servicer in writing, or by telephone
confirmed promptly in writing (which may be a standing instruction) (or if not
so instructed, then invested by the Trustee or the Eligible Institution
maintaining such accounts in any Eligible Investments listed in clause (d) of
the definition of Eligible Investments). All such Eligible Investments shall be
held by the Trustee or the Eligible Institution maintaining such accounts for
the benefit of the Certificateholders. Such funds shall be invested in Eligible
Investments that will mature so that funds will be available in amounts
sufficient for the Servicer to make each distribution required under the
applicable Supplement on the Distribution Date with respect to such Collection
Period. Funds deposited in the Concentration Account on a Determination Date
with respect to the next following Distribution Date are not required to be
invested overnight. On each Distribution Date, all interest and other investment
earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) received on funds on deposit in
the Concentration Account, to the extent such investment income is not needed to
pay the Certificateholders on such Distribution Date, shall be paid to the
Transferor, except as otherwise specified in any Supplement. The Trustee is
hereby authorized, unless otherwise directed by the Servicer, to effect
transactions in Eligible Investments through a capital markets affiliate of the
Trustee.

         (b) Dell Collection Accounts. On or prior to the Transfer Date, the
Servicer, for the benefit of the Certificate- holders, shall establish and
maintain or cause to be established and maintained (i) post-office boxes to
which Obligors will remit payments with respect to any Receivable (each such
post-office box, a "Dell Post-Office Box") and (ii) in the name of the Trustee,
on behalf of the Trust, with an Eligible Institution, segregated accounts
accessible by the Trustee (each such account, a "Dell Collection Account").
Obligors will be directed to remit payments with respect to their Receivables to
a Dell Post-Office Box or a Dell Collection Account. The Dell Post-Office Boxes
and Dell Collection Accounts shall be under the sole dominion and control of the
Trustee for the benefit of the Certificateholders; provided, however, that each
Dell Post-Office Box shall be accessible by the Trustee for the purpose of
transferring Collections to a Dell



                                       55
<PAGE>   62
Collection Account and each Dell Collection Account shall be accessible by the
Servicer for the purpose of transferring Collections to the Concentration
Account in the manner set forth in Section 4.02(a). Specified on Schedule I
hereto are (i) the Dell Post-Office Box numbers, (ii) the names, addresses and
ABA numbers of all the Dell Collection Account Banks, together with the account
numbers of the Dell Collection Accounts and the name of a contact person at each
Dell Collection Account Bank and (iii) the name, address and ABA number of the
Concentration Account Bank, together with the account number and the name of a
contact person for the Concentration Account. Each Dell Collection Account shall
be maintained with documentation and instructions in form and substance
satisfactory to the Trustee. Such documentation shall provide, among other
things, that available amounts shall be promptly transferred to the
Concentration Account. The Servicer will not (i) make any changes to Schedule I
hereto or (ii) amend any instruction to any Obligor or any Dell Collection
Account Bank with respect to any Dell Post-Office Box or Dell Collection Account
unless the Trustee shall have received notice of such change or amendment and
executed copies of Dell Collection Account Letters to each new Dell Collection
Account Bank.

         The Servicer hereby agrees and acknowledges that (i) it has executed
and delivered to the Trustee a letter and executed acknowledgement thereto
substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto (each, a "Dell Collection Account
Letter"), addressed to each banking institution with which the Dell Collection
Account is maintained (each, a "Dell Collection Account Bank") and (ii) it shall
execute and deliver a substantially similar Dell Collection Account Letter prior
to the establishment by it of any additional or alternative Dell Collection
Account. The Servicer hereby agrees, and the Trustee hereby acknowledges, that
the execution and delivery of a Dell Collection Account Letter transfers all
right, title and interest in all monies, securities and instruments in the
applicable Dell Collection Account to the Trustee. The Servicer agrees to amend
Schedule I hereto to reflect any change in the Dell Collection Account Banks and
to execute such further documents and take such other actions as may be
reasonably requested by the Trustee in order to effect such transfer.

         SECTION 4.03. Allocation of Collections. Collections will be allocated
to each Series as specified in the related Supplement, and amounts so allocated
to any Series will not, except as specified in the related Supplement, be
available to the Investor Certificateholders of any other Series. Allocations
thereof between the Certificateholders' Interest and the Transferor Interest,
among the Series or to any Enhancement Agreement and among the Classes in any
Series or to any Enhancement Provider shall be set forth in the related
Supplement or Supplements. If, on any day, the sum of the Floating Allocation
Percentages for all outstanding Series exceeds 100%, then the aggregate of the
Investor Collections for all outstanding Series shall be allocated pro rata



                                       56
<PAGE>   63
among all outstanding Series on the basis of the Series Allocation Percentage
for each such Series; provided, however, that if on any day the amount of
Investor Collections for any Series is not sufficient to pay the full amount of
interest due and payable on such day to the Investor Certificateholders of each
Series on such day, then the aggregate of the Investor Collections for all
outstanding Series shall be allocated pro rata among all outstanding Series on
the basis of a fraction, for each Series, the numerator of which is the Invested
Amount of such Series and the denominator of which is the Trust Invested Amount.



                                       57
<PAGE>   64
                                    ARTICLE V

                 DISTRIBUTIONS AND REPORTS TO CERTIFICATEHOLDERS

         SECTION 5.01. Distributions and Reports to Certificate- holders.
Distributions shall be made to, and reports shall be provided to,
Certificateholders as set forth in the applicable Supplement.



                                       58
<PAGE>   65
                                   ARTICLE VI

                                THE CERTIFICATES

         SECTION 6.01. The Certificates. The Investor Certificates of any Series
or Class shall be issued in registered form and shall be in substantially the
form of Exhibit A or Exhibit B, as the case may be, to the applicable Supplement
and shall upon issue be executed and delivered by the Transferor to the Trustee
for authentication and redelivery as provided in Section 6.02. The Investor
Certificates shall be issued in minimum denominations of $1,000,000 and in
integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof (except that one Certificate may
be issued in a denomination that includes any residual amount), and shall be
issued upon initial issuance as one or more Investor Certificates in an
aggregate original principal amount equal to the Initial Invested Amount. The
Transferor Certificate shall be a single certificate, substantially in the form
of Exhibit A hereto, and shall represent the entire Transferor Interest. Each
Certificate shall be executed by manual or facsimile signature on behalf of the
Transferor by the President, any Vice President, the Chief Administrative and
Credit Officer, Treasurer or the Secretary of the general partner of the
Transferor, or by any other officer or assistant officer duly authorized to
execute such Certificate on behalf of the Transferor. Certificates bearing the
manual or facsimile signature of the individual who was, at the time when such
signature was affixed, authorized to sign on behalf of the Transferor shall not
be rendered invalid, notwithstanding that such individual ceased to be so
authorized prior to the authentication and delivery of such Certificates or does
not hold such office at the date of such Certificates. No Certificates shall be
entitled to any benefit under this Agreement or the applicable Supplement or be
valid for any purpose, unless there appears on such Certificate a certificate of
authentication in substantially the form provided in Exhibit A hereto executed
by or on behalf of the Trustee by the manual signature of a duly authorized
signatory, and such certificate upon any Certificate shall be conclusive
evidence, and the only evidence, that such Certificate has been duly
authenticated and delivered hereunder. All Certificates shall be dated the date
of their authentication.

         SECTION 6.02. Authentication of Certificates. The Trustee shall
authenticate and deliver the Investor Certificates of each Series to, and upon
the written order of, the Transferor against payment to the Transferor of the
purchase price therefor. The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the
Transferor Certificate to the Transferor simultaneously with its delivery of the
first Series of Investor Certificates to be issued hereunder. The Certificates
of any Series or Class shall be duly authenticated by or on behalf of the
Trustee, in authorized denominations equal to (in the aggregate), in the case of
the Investor Certificates, the Initial Invested Amount of such Class, and, in
the case of the



                                       59
<PAGE>   66
Transferor Certificate, in the denomination equal to the Transferor Interest
from time to time, and together evidencing the entire ownership of the Trust.

         SECTION 6.03. Registration of Transfer and Exchange of Certificates.
(a) The Trustee shall cause to be kept at its corporate trust operations office
in Minneapolis, Minnesota, such office or agency to be maintained in accordance
with the provisions of Section 11.16, a register (the "Certificate Register") in
which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, a transfer
agent and registrar (which may be the Trustee) (the "Transfer Agent and
Registrar") shall provide for the registration of the Certificates and of
transfers and exchanges of the Certificates as herein provided. The Transfer
Agent and Registrar shall initially be the Trustee, and any co-transfer agent
and co-registrar chosen by the Trustee and acceptable to the Servicer. Any
reference in this Agreement to the Transfer Agent and Registrar shall include
any co-transfer agent and co-registrar unless the context requires otherwise.

         The Trustee shall be permitted to resign as Transfer Agent and
Registrar upon 30 days' (60 days' during an Amortization Period) written notice
to the Transferor and the Servicer; provided, however, that such resignation
shall not be effective and the Trustee shall continue to perform its duties as
Transfer Agent and Registrar until the Servicer has appointed a successor
Transfer Agent and Registrar reasonably acceptable to the Transferor.

         Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Investor Certificate
at any office or agency of the Transfer Agent and Registrar maintained for such
purpose, the Transferor shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and
deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more
new Investor Certificates (of the same Series and Class) in authorized
denominations of like aggregate Undivided Fractional Interests in the Aggregate
Certificateholders' Interest.

         At the option of an Investor Certificateholder, Investor Certificates
may be exchanged for other Investor Certificates (of the same Series and Class)
in authorized denominations of like aggregate Undivided Fractional Interests in
the Certificateholders' Interest, upon surrender of the Investor Certificates to
be exchanged at any such office or agency. Whenever any Investor Certificates
are so surrendered for exchange, the Transferor shall execute, and the Trustee
shall authenticate and deliver, the Investor Certificates which the
Certificateholder making the exchange is entitled to receive.

         Every Investor Certificate presented or surrendered for registration of
transfer or exchange shall be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in
a form satisfactory to the Trustee or the Transfer Agent and Registrar duly
executed by the



                                       60
<PAGE>   67
Certificateholder thereof or his attorney-in-fact duly authorized in writing.
Each Holder must satisfy all transfer restrictions set forth in the
Certificates.

                  Each Investor Certificate shall be registered at all times as
herein provided, and any transfer or exchange of such Investor Certificate will
be valid for purposes hereunder only upon registration of such transfer or
exchange by the Trustee or the Transfer Agent and Registrar as provided herein.
Payments on any Distribution Date shall be made to Holders of record on the
immediately preceding Record Date.

         No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or
exchange of Investor Certificates, but the Transfer Agent and Registrar or any
co-transfer agent and co-registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to
cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any
transfer or exchange of Investor Certificates.

         All Investor Certificates surrendered for registration of transfer or
exchange, or for payment, shall be cancelled and disposed of in a manner
reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee.

         (b) The Transfer Agent and Registrar will maintain at its expense in
Minneapolis, Minnesota, an office or offices or agency or agencies where
Investor Certificates may be surrendered for registration of transfer or
exchange.

         (c) (i) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 6.03, no
registration of transfer of any Investor Certificate shall be made unless the
transferor or the transferee shall deliver, at its expense, to the Transferor,
the Servicer and the Trustee either (A) a representation letter, substantially
in the form attached as Exhibit D to this Agreement stating whether such
transferee is a "benefit plan investor" as defined in Section 2510.3-101(f)(2)
of the Labor Regulations promulgated under ERISA, or (B) if such transferee is
an insurance company licensed to issue contracts of insurance in any state, the
information described in (c)(ii) below. The Transfer Agent and Registrar will
maintain, as a part of the Certificate Register, a list of all Investor
Certificates (or the portion of any thereof) that are held by benefit plan
investors on the basis of any representation provided pursuant to the foregoing
clause (A) or on the basis of any information provided to the Transfer Agent and
Registrar pursuant to the second sentence of clause (c)(ii) below. The Transfer
Agent and Registrar will not register the transfer of any Investor Certificate
if, immediately after the registration of transfer of such Investor Certificate,
25% or more of the outstanding principal balance of the Investor Certificates of
all Series are held by benefit plan investors. Notwithstanding anything else to
the contrary herein, any purported transfer of an Investor Certificate



                                       61
<PAGE>   68
to a benefit plan investor in violation of the preceding sentence shall be void 
and of no effect.

         (ii) In the event that such transferee is an insurance company licensed
to issue contracts of insurance in any state, such transferee, in lieu of the
representation letter described in (c)(i)(A) above, may represent that the
source of funds from which its investment is to be made is a general account of
such insurance company.

         SECTION 6.04. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Certificates. If (a)
any mutilated Certificate is surrendered to the Transfer Agent and Registrar, or
the Transfer Agent and Registrar receives evidence to its satisfaction of the
destruction, loss or theft of any Certificate and (b) there is delivered to the
Transfer Agent and Registrar, the Trustee, the Transferor and the Servicer such
indemnity (provided that a letter of indemnity from (i) an insurance company or
(ii) an institutional investor of investment grade credit rating shall satisfy
such requirement) as may be required by them to save each of them harmless,
then, in the absence of notice to the Trustee that such Certificate has been
acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Transferor shall execute and the Trustee
shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for or in lieu of any such
mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Certificate, a new Certificate of like
tenor and (in the case of any new Investor Certificate) Undivided Fractional
Interest. In connection with the issuance of any new Certificate under this
Section 6.04, the Trustee or the Transfer Agent and Registrar may require the
payment by the Certificateholder of a sum sufficient to pay any tax or other
governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto. Any duplicate
Certificate issued pursuant to this Section 6.04 shall constitute complete and
indefeasible evidence of ownership in the Trust, as if originally issued,
whether or not the lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate shall be found at any
time.

         SECTION 6.05. Persons Deemed Owners. At all times prior to due
presentation of a Certificate for registration of transfer, the Trustee, the
Transfer Agent and Registrar and any agent of any of them shall treat the Person
in whose name any Certificate is registered as the owner of such Certificate for
the purpose of receiving distributions pursuant to the terms of the applicable
Supplement and for all other purposes whatsoever and neither the Trustee, the
Transfer Agent and Registrar nor any agent of any of them shall be affected by
any notice to the contrary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in determining
whether the Holders of the requisite Undivided Fractional Interests have given
any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver
hereunder, Certificates owned by the Transferor, the Servicer or any Affiliate
thereof shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in
determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such
request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only



                                       62
<PAGE>   69
Certificates which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded.
Certificates so owned which have been pledged in good faith shall not be
disregarded and may be regarded as outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the
satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such
Certificates and that the pledgee is not the Transferor, the Servicer or an
Affiliate thereof.

         SECTION 6.06. Access to List of Certificateholders' Names and
Addresses. The Trustee will furnish or cause to be furnished by the Transfer
Agent and Registrar to the Servicer, the Transferor or any Investor
Certificateholder, within five Business Days after receipt by the Trustee of a
written request therefor from the Servicer, the Transferor or any Investor
Certificateholder, respectively, a list of the names and addresses of the
Certificateholders.

         Every Certificateholder, by receiving and holding a Certificate, agrees
that neither the Trustee, the Transfer Agent and Registrar, the Transferor, the
Servicer, Dell, nor any of their respective agents, shall be held accountable by
reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses
of the Certificateholders hereunder, regardless of the sources from which such
information was derived.

         SECTION 6.07. Authenticating Agent. (a) The Trustee may appoint one or
more authenticating agents with respect to the Certificates which shall be
authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee in authenticating the Certificates in
connection with the issuance, delivery, registration of transfer, exchange or
repayment of the Certificates. Whenever reference is made in this Agreement to
the authentication of Certificates by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate
of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication on
behalf of the Trustee by an authenticating agent and a certificate of
authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an authenticating agent.
Each authenticating agent must be acceptable to the Transferor and the Servicer.

         (b) Any institution succeeding to the corporate agency business of an
authenticating agent shall continue to be an authenticating agent without the
execution or filing of any power or any further act on the part of the Trustee
or such authenticating agent.

         (c) An authenticating agent may at any time resign by giving written
notice of resignation to the Trustee and to the Transferor. The Trustee may at
any time terminate the agency of an authenticating agent by giving notice of
termination to such authenticating agent and to the Transferor. Upon receiving
such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time
an authenticating agent shall cease to be acceptable to the



                                       63
<PAGE>   70
Trustee or the Transferor, the Trustee may promptly appoint a successor
authenticating agent. Any successor authenticating agent upon acceptance of its
appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties
of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an
authenticating agent. No successor authenticating agent shall be appointed
unless acceptable to the Trustee and the Transferor.

         (d) The Transferor agrees to pay to each authenticating agent from time
to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section 6.07.

         (e) The provisions of Sections 11.01, 11.02 and 11.03 shall be
applicable to any authenticating agent.

         (f) Pursuant to an appointment made under this Section 6.07, the
Certificates may have endorsed thereon, in lieu of or in addition to the
Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of
authentication in substantially the following form:

         This is one of the Certificates described in the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement.

                                                 -------------------------------

                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 as Authenticating Agent
                                                    for the Trustee

                                                 By:
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                    Authorized Signer

         SECTION 6.08. New Issuances. (a) The Transferor may from time to time
direct the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, to issue one or more new Series of
Investor Certificates pursuant to a Supplement. The Investor Certificates of all
outstanding Series shall be equally and ratably entitled as provided herein to
the benefits of this Agreement without preference, priority or distinction, all
in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the applicable
Supplement except, with respect to any Series or Class, as provided in the
related Supplement.

         (b) On or before the Initial Issuance Date relating to any new Series,
the parties hereto will execute and deliver a Supplement which will specify the
Principal Terms of such new Series. The terms of such Supplement may modify or
amend the terms of this Agreement solely as applied to such new Series. The
obligation of the Trustee to issue the Investor Certificates of such new Series
and to execute and deliver the related Supplement is subject to the satisfaction
of the following conditions:


                                       64
<PAGE>   71
         (i)   on or before the tenth Business Day immediately preceding the
     Initial Issuance Date for such Series, the Transferor shall have given the
     Trustee, the Servicer, each Rating Agency and any Enhancement Provider
     written notice of such issuance and the Initial Issuance Date for such
     Series;

         (ii)  the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee the related
     Supplement, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, executed by each party
     hereto other than the Trustee;

         (iii) the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee any related
     Enhancement Agreement executed by each party hereto other than the Trustee;

         (iv)  each Rating Agency shall have notified the Transferor, the
     Servicer, the Trustee and any Enhancement Provider in writing that the
     issuance of such new Series of Investor Certificates will not result in a
     reduction or withdrawal of the rating of any outstanding Series or Class
     with respect to which it is a Rating Agency;

         (v)   such issuance will not result in the occurrence of a Trust Early
     Amortization Event and the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee
     and any Enhancement Provider an Officer's Certificate, dated the Initial
     Issuance Date for such Series (upon which the Trustee may conclusively
     rely), to the effect that the Transferor reasonably believes that such
     issuance will not result in the occurrence of a Trust Early Amortization
     Event and is not reasonably expected to result in the occurrence of a Trust
     Early Amortization Event at any time in the future;

         (vi)  the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee and any
     Enhancement Provider an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the issuance
     of the Investor Certificates of such Series (A) has been, or need not be,
     registered under the Act and will not result in the requirement that any
     other Series of Investor Certificates not registered under the Act be so
     registered (unless the Transferor has elected, in its sole discretion, to
     register such Certificates), and (B) will not result in the Trust becoming
     subject to registration as an investment company under the Investment
     Company Act and (C) will not require this Agreement or the related
     Supplement to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as
     amended;

         (vii) the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee a Tax Opinion,
     dated the Initial Issuance Date for such Series, with respect to such
     issuance;



                                       65
<PAGE>   72
         (viii) such issuance will not result in the aggregate of the Floating
     Allocation Percentages for all outstanding Series (after giving effect to
     such new issuance) exceeding 100%; and

         (ix)   the Receivables Purchase Agreements, the Parent Undertaking
     Agreement and the Cross-Guarantee Agreement shall be in full force and
     effect.

Upon satisfaction of the above conditions, the Trustee shall execute the
Supplement and the Transferor shall execute and deliver the Investor
Certificates of such Series for authentication and redelivery to or upon the
order of the Transferor. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 6.08(b),
prior to the execution of any Supplement, the Trustee shall be entitled to
receive and rely upon an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such
Supplement is authorized or permitted by this Agreement and any Supplement
related to any outstanding Series. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated
to, enter into any such Supplement which adversely affects the Trustee's own
rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement.

         (c)    The Transferor may surrender the Transferor Certificate to the
Trustee in exchange for a newly issued Transferor Certificate and a second
certificate (a "Supplemental Certificate"), the terms of which shall be subject
to Section 13.01 to the extent that it amends any of the terms of this
Agreement, to be delivered to or upon the order of the Transferor (or the holder
of a Supplemental Certificate, in the case of the transfer or exchange thereof,
as provided below), upon satisfaction of the following conditions:

         (i)    the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's
     Certificate certifying that the result obtained by multiplying (x) an
     amount equal to the excess of the Net Receivables Balance over the Trust
     Invested Amount by (y) the percentage equivalent of the portion of the
     Transferor Interest represented by the Transferor Certificate, shall not be
     less than 2% of the aggregate balance of all Receivables owned by the
     Trust, in each case as of the date of, and after giving effect to, such
     exchange;

         (ii)   the Rating Agency Condition shall have been satisfied with 
     respect to such exchange (or transfer or exchange as provided below); and

         (iii)  the Transferor shall have delivered to the Trustee and any
     Enhancement Provider a Tax Opinion, dated the date of such exchange (or
     transfer or exchange as provided below), with respect thereto.

         The Transferor Certificate will at all times be beneficially owned by
the Transferor. Any Supplemental Certificate may be



                                       66
<PAGE>   73
transferred or exchanged only upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in
clauses (ii) and (iii) above. Any Supplemental Certificate may be transferred
only with the consent (which consent may be unreasonably withheld) of a Majority
in Interest of each Class of each outstanding Series.



                                       67
<PAGE>   74
                                   ARTICLE VII

                    OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO THE TRANSFEROR

         SECTION 7.01. Obligations not Assignable. The obligations of the
Transferor hereunder shall not be assignable nor shall any Person succeed to the
obligations of the Transferor hereunder.

         SECTION 7.02. Limitations on Liability. None of the directors,
officers, employees or agents of the Transferor or any limited partner of the
Transferor, past, present or future, shall be under any liability to the Trust,
the Trustee, the Certificate- holders or any other Person for any action taken
or for refraining from the taking of any action in such capacities pursuant to
this Agreement or for any obligation or covenant under this Agreement; provided,
however, that this provision shall not protect any such Person against any
liability which would otherwise be imposed by reason of willful misconduct or
bad faith, in the performance by such Person of such Person's duties or the
reckless disregard by such Person of any of his, her or its obligations and
duties hereunder. The Transferor and any partner, director, officer, employee or
agent of the Transferor may rely in good faith on any document of any kind prima
facie properly executed and submitted by any Person (other than the Transferor
or any Affiliate thereof) respecting any matters arising hereunder or under any
Supplement or the Receivables Purchase Agreements.

         SECTION 7.03. Indemnification of the Trustee, the Trust and the
Investor Certificateholders. Without limiting any other rights which the
Trustee, the Trust or any Investor Certificate- holder (each, an "Indemnified
Party") may have hereunder or under applicable law, the Transferor hereby agrees
to indemnify each Indemnified Party from and against any and all damages,
losses, liabilities and related costs and expenses actually incurred (excluding
consequential damages and lost profits), including reasonable attorneys' fees
and disbursements (all of the foregoing being collectively referred to as
"Indemnified Amounts") awarded against or incurred by any of them arising out of
or resulting from this Agreement, the activities of the Trust or the Trustee in
connection herewith, the Transferor's use of proceeds of Transfers of
Receivables or reinvestments of Collections, the interest conveyed hereunder in
Trust Assets, or in respect of any Receivable or the Receivables Purchase
Agreements (excluding however (a) Indemnified Amounts resulting from gross
negligence or willful misconduct on the part of such Indemnified Party to which
such Indemnified Amount would otherwise be due, (b) losses in respect of
Receivables to the extent reimbursement therefor would constitute credit
recourse to the Transferor for nonpayment of any Receivable by any Originator,
(c) any income or franchise taxes or similar taxes (or any interest or penalties
with respect thereto) incurred by such Indemnified Party arising out of or as a
result of this



                                       68
<PAGE>   75
Agreement or the interest conveyed hereunder in Trust Assets or in respect of
any Receivable or the Receivables Purchase Agreements and (d) Indemnified
Amounts resulting from the acts or omissions of the Servicer (unless the
Servicer is Dell or any Affiliate of Dell)), to the extent caused by:

         (i)   reliance on any representation, warranty or covenant made or
     statement made or deemed made by the Transferor (or any of its Responsible
     Officers) under or in connection with this Agreement or the Receivables
     Purchase Agreements which shall have been incorrect in any material respect
     when made or deemed made or which the Transferor shall have failed to
     perform;

         (ii)  the failure by the Transferor to comply with this Agreement or 
     any applicable Requirement of Law with respect to any Receivable or the
     related Contract or the Receivables Purchase Agreements, or the failure of
     any Receivable or the related Contract to conform to the applicable
     Receivables Purchase Agreement or any Requirement of Law;

         (iii) the failure to vest in the Trustee on behalf of the Investor
     Certificateholders either an undivided fractional beneficial interest, to
     the extent of their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, or a
     perfected first priority security interest in the Receivables and the other
     Trust Assets, free and clear of any Lien;

         (iv)  the failure to have filed, or any delay in filing, any financing
     statements or other similar instruments or documents under the UCC of any
     applicable jurisdiction or other applicable laws that are necessary for
     perfection or priority of the ownership and security interest created by
     this Agreement;

         (v)   any commingling of Collections by the Transferor with other funds
     of the Transferor or any Affiliate;

         (vi)  any investigation, litigation or proceeding related to this
     Agreement or the Receivables Purchase Agreements or the Trust or the use of
     proceeds or reinvestments of proceeds by the Transferor, Dell Marketing
     L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. or Dell of Transfers of Receivables or the
     ownership of or security interest in Trust Assets or in respect of any
     Receivable or Contract, other than any investigation, litigation or
     proceeding relating to such Indemnified Party's affairs which includes
     matters or transactions in addition to those contemplated by the
     Transaction Documents;

         (vii) any claim brought by any Person other than an Indemnified Party
     arising from any activity by the Transferor



                                       69
<PAGE>   76
     or any Affiliate of the Transferor in servicing, administering or
     collecting any Receivable;

         (viii) any failure by the Transferor to perform its duties or
     obligations in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or the
     Receivables Purchase Agreements; or

         (ix)   any tax (other than any income or franchise or similar tax, or 
     any interest or penalties with respect thereto) imposed by reason of
     ownership of the Receivables or other Trust Assets by the Trustee.

         Any Indemnified Amounts due hereunder shall be payable within ten
Business Days of submission of a claim by the Indemnified Party.

         Indemnification pursuant to this Section 7.03 shall only be payable
from assets of the Transferor. The agreement contained in this Section 7.03
shall survive the collection of all Receivables, the termination of the Trust
and the payment of all amounts otherwise payable hereunder.

         Each Indemnified Party will use its best efforts to notify the
Transferor in advance of making any claim under this Section 7.03.



                                       70
<PAGE>   77
                                  ARTICLE VIII

                     OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO THE SERVICER

         SECTION 8.01. Liability of the Servicer. The Servicer shall be liable
under this Agreement only to the extent of the obligations specifically
undertaken by the Servicer in its capacity as Servicer. No implied duties or
covenants shall be read into this Agreement against the Servicer.

         SECTION 8.02. Merger or Consolidation of, or Assumption of the
Obligations of, the Servicer. The Servicer shall not consolidate with or merge
into any other Person or convey or transfer its properties and assets
substantially as an entirety to any Person (other than Dell or any of its
Controlled Affiliates) unless:

         (a) (i) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the
Servicer is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer the
properties and assets of the Servicer substantially as an entirety shall be, if
the Servicer is not the surviving entity, a corporation or limited partnership
organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any
State or the District of Columbia, and such corporation or limited partnership
shall have expressly assumed, by an agreement supplemental hereto, executed and
delivered to the Trustee, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, the
performance of every covenant and obligation of the Servicer hereunder; (ii) the
Servicer shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an
Opinion of Counsel each in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee and
stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance or transfer complies with
this Section 8.02 and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating
to such transaction have been complied with; and (iii) the Rating Agency
Condition shall have been satisfied; and

         (b) the corporation or limited partnership formed by such consolidation
or into which the Servicer is merged or which acquires by conveyance or transfer
the properties and assets of the Servicer substantially as an entirety shall
have all licenses and approvals of Governmental Authorities required to service
the Receivables, except to the extent the failure to have any such license would
not have a material adverse effect on its ability to perform the obligations of
Servicer hereunder.

         SECTION 8.03. Limitations on Liability. None of the directors,
officers, employees or agents of the Servicer or any limited partner of the
Servicer, past, present or future, shall be under any liability to the Trust,
the Trustee, the Certificate- holders or any other Person for any action taken
or for refraining from the taking of any action in such capacities pursuant to
this Agreement or for any obligation or covenant under this Agreement,



                                       71
<PAGE>   78
it being understood that, with respect to the Servicer, that this Agreement and
the obligations created hereunder are solely the obligations of the Servicer;
provided, however, that this provision shall not protect the Servicer or any
such Person against any liability which would otherwise be imposed by reason of
willful misconduct, bad faith, gross negligence or the reckless disregard by
such Person of any of his, her or its obligations and duties. The Servicer and
any partner, director, officer, employee or agent of the Servicer may rely in
good faith on any document of any kind prima facie properly executed and
submitted by any Person (other than the Servicer or any Affiliate thereof)
respecting any matters arising hereunder. The Servicer shall not be under any
obligation to appear in, prosecute or defend any legal action which is not
incidental to its duties as Servicer in accordance with this Agreement and which
in its reasonable judgment may involve it in any material expense or liability.

         SECTION 8.04. Servicer Indemnification. The Servicer hereby agrees to
indemnify each Indemnified Party from and against Indemnified Amounts awarded
against or incurred by any of them arising out of or resulting from this
Agreement, the activities of the Trust or the Trustee in connection herewith,
the Transferor's use of proceeds of Transfers of Receivables or reinvestments of
Collections, the interest conveyed hereunder in Trust Assets, or in respect of
any Receivable or the Receivables Purchase Agreements (excluding however (a)
Indemnified Amounts resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct on the
part of such Indemnified Party to which such Indemnified Amount would otherwise
be due, (b) losses in respect of Receivables to the extent reimbursement
therefor would constitute credit recourse to the Transferor for nonpayment of
any Receivable by any Originator and (c) any income or franchise taxes or
similar taxes (or any interest or penalties with respect thereto) incurred by
such Indemnified Party arising out of or as a result of this Agreement or the
interest conveyed hereunder in Trust Assets or in respect of any Receivable or
the Receivables Purchase Agreements) to the extent caused by:

         (i)   reliance on any representation, warranty or covenant made by the
     Servicer (or any of its Responsible Officers) under or in connection with
     this Agreement which shall have been incorrect in any material respect when
     made or which the Servicer shall have failed to perform;

         (ii)  the failure by the Servicer to comply with any applicable
     Requirement of Law with respect to any Receivable or the related Contract;

         (iii) any commingling by the Servicer of Collections with other funds
     of the Servicer or any Affiliate;

         (iv)  any claim brought by any Person other than an Indemnified Party
     arising from any activity by the Servicer or



                                       72
<PAGE>   79
     any Affiliate of the Servicer in servicing, administering or collecting any
     Receivable; or

         (v) any failure by the Servicer to perform its duties or obligations in
     accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

         The agreement contained in this Section 8.04 shall survive the
collection of all Receivables, the termination of the Trust and the payment of
all amounts otherwise due hereunder.

         Any Indemnified Amounts due hereunder shall be payable within ten
Business Days of submission of a claim by the Indemnified Party.

         Each Indemnified Party will use its best efforts to notify the Servicer
in advance of making any claim under this Section 8.04.

         SECTION 8.05. The Servicer Not to Resign. The Servicer shall not resign
from the obligations and duties hereby imposed on it except upon determination
that (i) its performance of its duties hereunder is no longer permissible under
applicable law and (ii) there is no reasonable action which the Servicer could
take to make its performance of its duties hereunder permissible under
applicable law. Any determination permitting the resignation of the Servicer
shall be evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel who is not an employee of the
Servicer or any Affiliate of the Servicer with respect to clause (i) above,
delivered to, and in form reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee. No
resignation shall become effective until the Trustee or a Successor Servicer
shall have assumed the responsibilities and obligations of the Servicer in
accordance with Section 10.02.

         SECTION 8.06. Examination of Records. The Servicer shall mark its
computer records that the Receivables and other Trust Assets have been
Transferred to the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, pursuant to this Agreement
for the benefit of the Certificateholders. The Servicer (and the Transferor)
shall, prior to the sale or transfer to a party other than the Transferor of any
receivable held in its custody, examine its records to determine that such
receivable is not a Receivable.

         SECTION 8.07. Confidentiality. The Servicer agrees to use its best
efforts, and shall cause its agents or representatives to use their best
efforts, to hold in confidence all Confidential Information; provided that
nothing herein shall prevent the Servicer from delivering copies of any
financial statements and other documents constituting Confidential Information,
or disclosing any other Confidential Information, (i) to a Successor Servicer or
as required by a Requirement of Law applicable to the Servicer, (ii) as required
in the performance of the Servicer's



                                       73
<PAGE>   80
duties hereunder, (iii) as required in enforcing the rights of the
Certificateholders hereunder or (iv) as provided in any Supplement. The Servicer
agrees to take such measures as shall be reasonably requested by the Transferor
to protect and maintain the security and confidentiality of all Confidential
Information and, in connection therewith, will allow the Transferor to inspect
the Servicer's security and confidentiality arrangements from time to time
during normal business hours. The Servicer shall use its best efforts to provide
the Transferor written notice at least five Business Days prior to any
disclosure pursuant to this Section 8.07 and in any event will provide written
notice whenever any such disclosure is made.



                                       74
<PAGE>   81
                                   ARTICLE IX

                         TRUST EARLY AMORTIZATION EVENTS

         SECTION 9.01. Trust Early Amortization Events. If any one of the
following events shall occur:

         (a) any failure by the Transferor or the Servicer to make any payment,
transfer or deposit required to be paid, effected or made by it hereunder
(including pursuant to Section 3.04(b)) on or before the date occurring two
Business Days after the date such payment, transfer or deposit is required to be
made hereunder; or

         (b) any representation, warranty, certification or written statement
made or deemed made by the Transferor or the Servicer under or in connection
with this Agreement, or by Dell under or in connection with the Parent
Undertaking Agreement, or in any statement, record, certificate, financial
statement or other document delivered pursuant hereto or to the Parent
Undertaking Agreement or in connection herewith or with the Parent Undertaking
Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect on or as of
the date made or deemed made which has a material adverse effect on the
interests of the Certificateholders of any Series and which continues unremedied
for 20 days (or, with respect to the representations and warranties made in
Sections 2.03(g) and 2.03(h), continues unremedied for five days, or, with
respect to any representations and warranties made under Section 2.04 hereof,
such longer period as may be agreed to by the Trustee and a Majority in Interest
of each outstanding Series) after the earlier of (i) the date on which written
notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given
to Dell, the Transferor or the Servicer, as applicable, by the Trustee or any
Enhancement Provider and (ii) the date on which written notice of such failure,
requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to Dell, the Transferor
or the Servicer, as applicable, and the Trustee by Certificateholders of any
outstanding Series evidencing not less than 20% of the Invested Amount for such
Series; or

         (c) the Transferor or the Servicer shall fail to observe or perform in
any material respect any covenant or agreement applicable to it contained herein
(other than as specified in clause (a) or (b) above), which has a material
adverse effect on the Certificateholders and continues unremedied for 20 days
(or, with respect to the covenants contained in Sections 3.04(a), 3.04(h) and
3.04(i) hereof, continues unremedied for five days) after the earlier of (i) the
date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied,
shall have been given to the Transferor or the Servicer, as applicable, by the
Trustee or any Enhancement Provider and (ii) the date on which written notice of
such failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the
Transferor or the Servicer, as applicable, and the



                                       75
<PAGE>   82
Trustee by Certificateholders of any outstanding Series evidencing not less than
20% of the Invested Amount for such Series; or

         (d) an Event of Termination under any Receivables Purchase Agreement
shall occur, and shall not be remedied within the applicable grace period, if
any, or any Receivables Purchase Agreement shall for any reason cease to be in
full force and effect or an Early Termination (as defined therein) shall occur;
or

         (e) the Net Receivables Balance is less than the Required Net
Receivables Balance on the sixth consecutive day following a Pool Non-compliance
Date; or

         (f) an Insolvency Event shall occur with respect to the Transferor, the
Servicer, Dell or the Trust; provided that for purposes of this Section 9.01,
the definition of "Insolvency Event" shall be construed without giving effect to
the 60-day grace period in clause (a) thereof (except with respect to any
Controlled Affiliate that is not a party to any Transaction Document); or

         (g) the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory body
having jurisdiction reaches a final determination that the Trust is an
"investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act; or

         (h) (i) any purchase of any Receivables by the Transferor under any
Receivables Purchase Agreement shall cease to create a valid sale, transfer and
assignment to the Transferor of all right, title and interest of the Originator
in and to such Receivables and the proceeds thereof, or (ii) any Transfer of any
Receivables on any date shall for any reason cease to create a valid transfer
and assignment to the Trust of all right, title and interest of the Transferor
in and to such Receivables and the proceeds thereof or, if such Transfer does
not constitute such a sale, transfer and assignment, cease to create a valid and
perfected first priority "security interest" (as defined in the UCC of the
jurisdiction the law of which governs the perfection of the interest in such
Receivables created hereunder) in such Receivables and the proceeds thereof, or
(iii) the Investor Certificates delivered hereunder shall for any reason (other
than due to their own acts or omissions) cease to evidence the transfer to the
Investor Certificateholders of, or the Investor Certificateholders shall
otherwise cease to have, a beneficial interest in a trust owning or the Trustee
having a perfected first priority security interest in the Receivables and the
other Trust Assets now existing and hereafter arising and the proceeds thereof
to the extent of their respective Undivided Fractional Interests; or

         (i) the Trust at any time receives a final determination that it will
be treated as an association taxable as a corporation for federal income tax
purposes; or


                                       76
<PAGE>   83
         (j) a Servicer Default shall have occurred and be continuing which has
a material adverse effect on the interests of the Certificateholders; or

         (k) the Servicer shall have resigned in accordance with the terms of
this Agreement; or

         (l) Dell shall fail to observe or perform in any material respect any
covenant or agreement applicable to it contained in Section 6 of the Parent
Undertaking Agreement, or the Parent Undertaking Agreement shall cease to be in
effect; or

         (m) the Cross-Guarantee Agreement shall cease to be in effect;

then, if any of the events set forth in paragraphs (a), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h),
(i), (j), (k), (l) or (m) above shall have occurred, a "Trust Early Amortization
Event" shall occur without any notice, demand, protest or other requirement of
any kind immediately upon the occurrence of such event and if any of the events
set forth in paragraphs (b) or (c) above shall have occurred, the Trustee may,
by notice to the Transferor and the Servicer, declare that a "Trust Early
Amortization Event" shall occur as of the date set forth in such notice. Upon
the occurrence of a Trust Early Amortization Event, additional Receivables will
not be transferred to the Trust.

         A Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series may, on behalf of all
Certificateholders, waive any default by the Servicer in the performance of its
obligations hereunder and its consequences, except (1) the failure to make any
distributions or payments required to be made to Certificateholders or to make
any required deposits of any amounts to be so distributed or paid can be waived
only (a) with respect to Indemnified Amounts, with the consent of the relevant
Indemnified Party or (b) with respect to other amounts, with unanimous consent
of all Certificateholders of all outstanding Series and (2) defaults arising
from the events set forth in paragraph (d). No such waiver shall extend to any
subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon except to the
extent expressly so waived.

         SECTION 9.02. Additional Rights Upon the Occurrence of any Trust Early
Amortization Event. (a) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any
Trust Early Amortization Event, in addition to all other rights and remedies
under this Agreement or otherwise and all other rights and remedies provided
under the UCC of the applicable jurisdiction and other applicable laws (which
rights shall be cumulative), each of the Servicer, at the direction of the
Trustee, and the Trustee may exercise any and all rights and remedies of the
Transferor under or in connection with the Receivables Purchase Agreements,
including, without limitation, any and all rights of the Transferor to demand or
otherwise require payment of any amount under, or performance of any provision
of,


                                       77
<PAGE>   84
the Receivables Purchase Agreements. Further, the Trustee may exercise any and
all rights and remedies under the Parent Undertaking Agreement and the
Cross-Guarantee Agreement.

         (b) If an Insolvency Event with respect to the Transferor occurs, the
Transferor shall immediately cease to transfer Receivables to the Trust and
shall promptly give written notice to the Trustee, who shall within two Business
Days forward such notice to the Certificateholders, each Rating Agency and the
Servicer of such event. Notwithstanding the above, Receivables transferred to
the Trust prior to the occurrence of such Insolvency Event and collections
relating to such Receivables shall continue to be part of the Trust. Unless,
within 10 Business Days of the date of the notice provided for above, the
Trustee receives written instructions from a Majority in Interest of each
outstanding Series instructing the Trustee not to sell, dispose of or liquidate
the Receivables, the Trustee shall promptly proceed to sell, dispose of, or
otherwise liquidate the Receivables in a commercially reasonable manner and on
commercially reasonable terms; provided, however, that if the amount available
to the Trust for distribution after such sale, disposition or liquidation would
be less than the aggregate principal amount of the Investor Certificates plus
any unpaid Discount Amount thereon through the Distribution Date next succeeding
the date of such sale, the Trustee shall not proceed with such sale, disposition
or liquidation unless a Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series shall
have consented in writing thereto. The proceeds from such sale, disposition or
liquidation of the Receivables shall be treated as Collections on the
Receivables and shall be distributed in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement after being deposited in the Concentration Account.



                                       78
<PAGE>   85
                                    ARTICLE X

                                SERVICER DEFAULTS

         SECTION 10.01. Servicer Defaults. If any one of the following events
(each being a "Servicer Default") shall occur and be continuing:

         (a) any failure by the Servicer to make any payment, transfer or
deposit (including pursuant to Section 3.04(b)), or, if applicable, to give
instructions or notice to the Trustee to make such payment, transfer or deposit,
or to give notice to the Trustee as to any action to be taken under any
Enhancement Agreement, or any failure to provide the Determination Date
Certificate to the Trustee, which failure continues unremedied (A) in the case
of payments for two Business Days and (B) in the case of the Determination Date
Certificate, for three Business Days; or

         (b) any failure by the Servicer duly to observe or perform in any
material respect any other covenant or agreement of the Servicer set forth in
this Agreement, which failure has a material adverse effect on the interests of
the Certificateholders and which continues unremedied for 20 days (or, with
respect to any covenant contained in Sections 3.04(a), 3.04(h) and 3.04(i),
continues unremedied for five days) after the earlier of (i) the date on which
written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have
been given to the Servicer by the Trustee or any Enhancement Provider and (ii)
the date on which written notice of such failure, requiring the same to be
remedied, shall have been given to the Servicer and the Trustee by Certificate-
holders of any outstanding Series evidencing not less than 20% of the Invested
Amount for such Series; or

         (c) any representation, warranty or certification made by the Servicer
under or in connection with this Agreement, or in any certificate or information
delivered pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement, shall prove to have
been incorrect in any respect when made and which has a material adverse effect
on the interests of the Certificateholders of any Series and which material
adverse effect continues for a period of 20 days (or, with respect to any
representation and warranty made in Sections 3.03(g), continues for five days)
after the earlier of (i) the date on which written notice of such failure,
requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the Servicer by the
Trustee or any Enhancement Provider and (ii) the date on which written notice of
such failure, requiring the same to be remedied, shall have been given to the
Servicer and the Trustee by Certificate-holders of any outstanding Series
evidencing not less than 20% of the Invested Amount for such Series; or

         (d) an Insolvency Event shall occur with respect to the Servicer; or



                                       79
<PAGE>   86
         (e) the Servicer assigns its duties under this Agreement, except as
specifically permitted by Section 8.02;

then, as long as such Servicer Default shall not have been remedied and is
continuing, either the Trustee (unless otherwise directed by a Majority in
Interest of each outstanding Series) or the Majority in Interest of each Series,
by notice then given in writing to the Servicer (and to the Trustee if given by
such Investor Certificateholders) (each such notice being a "Termination
Notice"), may terminate all but not less than all the rights and obligations of
the Servicer as Servicer under this Agreement. The Trustee shall be deemed to
have knowledge of a Servicer Default if it has actual knowledge or if a
Responsible Officer of the Trustee has received written notice thereof.

         Notwithstanding the foregoing, a delay in or failure of performance
referred to in Section 10.01(a) or (b) for a period of five Business Days after
the applicable grace period shall not constitute a Servicer Default if such
delay or failure could not have been prevented by the exercise of reasonable
diligence by the Servicer and such delay or failure was caused by an act of God
or the public enemy, acts of declared or undeclared war, public disorder,
rebellion or sabotage, epidemics, landslides, lightning, fire, hurricanes,
earthquakes, floods, union strikes, work stoppages or similar causes. The
preceding sentence shall not relieve the Servicer from using its best efforts to
perform its obligations in a timely manner in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, and the Servicer shall provide the Trustee, the Transferor, any
Enhancement Provider and the Investor Certificate- holders with an Officer's
Certificate giving prompt notice of such failure or delay by it, together with a
description of its efforts so to perform its obligations.

         A Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series may, on behalf of all
Certificateholders, waive any default by the Servicer in the performance of its
obligations hereunder and its consequences, except (1) the failure to make any
distributions or payments required to be made to Certificateholders or to make
any required deposits of any amounts to be so distributed or paid can be waived
only (a) with respect to Indemnified Amounts, with the consent of the relevant
Indemnified Party or (b) with respect to other amounts, with unanimous consent
of all Certificateholders of all outstanding Series and (2) defaults arising
from the events set forth in paragraph (d). No such waiver shall extend to any
subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon except to the
extent expressly so waived.

         After receipt by the Servicer of a Termination Notice, and on the date
that a Successor Servicer shall have been appointed by the Trustee pursuant to
Section 10.02, all authority and power of the Servicer under this Agreement
shall pass to and be vested in such Successor Servicer (a "Service Transfer");
and, without


                                       80
<PAGE>   87
limitation, the Trustee is hereby authorized, empowered and instructed (upon the
failure of the Servicer to cooperate) to execute and deliver, on behalf of the
Servicer, as attorney-in-fact or otherwise, all documents and other instruments
upon the failure of the Servicer to execute or deliver such documents or
instruments, and to do and accomplish all other acts or things necessary or
appropriate to effect the purposes of such Service Transfer. The Servicer agrees
to cooperate, at its expense, with the Trustee and such Successor Servicer in
(i) effecting the termination of the responsibilities and rights of the Servicer
to conduct servicing hereunder, including, without limitation, the transfer to
such Successor Servicer of all authority of the Servicer to service the
Receivables as provided under this Agreement, including all authority over all
Collections which shall on the date of such Service Transfer be held by the
Servicer for deposit to the Concentration Account, any Dell Collection Account,
the Trustee's Account or the Transferor's Account, or which have been deposited
by the Servicer to the Concentration Account, any Dell Collection Account, or
any other account, or which shall thereafter be received with respect to the
Receivables, (ii) taking such measures as shall be reasonably requested by the
Transferor to protect and maintain the security and confidentiality of all
Confidential Information in accordance with Section 8.07 and, (iii) assisting
the Successor Servicer until all servicing activities have been transferred to
such Successor Servicer, such assistance to include, without limitation, (x)
assisting any accountants selected by the Successor Servicer to verify
collection records and reports made prior to the Service Transfer and (y)
assisting to make the computer systems of the Servicer and the Successor
Servicer compatible to the extent necessary to effect the Servicer Transfer. The
Servicer shall, at its expense, within five Business Days of such Service
Transfer, (A) assemble such documents, instruments and other records (including
computer tapes and disks), which evidence the Receivables and the other Trust
Assets, and which are necessary or desirable to collect the Receivables, and
shall make the same available to the Successor Servicer or the Trustee or its
designee at a place selected by the Successor Servicer or the Trustee and in
such form as the Successor Servicer or the Trustee may reasonably request, and
(B) segregate all cash, checks and other instruments received by it from time to
time constituting Collections of Receivables in a manner acceptable to the
Successor Servicer and the Trustee, and, promptly upon receipt, remit all such
cash, checks and instruments to the Successor Servicer or the Trustee or its
designee.

         At any time following a Termination Notice:

         (1) The Servicer shall, at the Trustee's request and at the Servicer's
     expense, give notice of the Trust's ownership of the Receivables to the
     related Obligors and direct that payments be made directly to the Trustee
     or its designee;



                                       81
<PAGE>   88
         (2) If the Servicer fails to provide the notice to Obligors required in
     paragraph (1) above, the Trustee may direct the Obligors of Receivables, or
     any of them, that payment of all amounts payable under any such Receivables
     be made directly to the Trustee or its designee;

         (3) Each of the Transferor and each Certificateholder hereby authorizes
     the Trustee to take any and all steps in the Transferor's name and on
     behalf of the Transferor and the Certificateholders necessary or desirable,
     in the determination of the Trustee, to collect all amounts due under any
     and all Receivables, including, without limitation, endorsing the
     Transferor's name on checks and other instruments representing Collections
     in respect of such Receivables and enforcing such Receivables.

         SECTION 10.02. Trustee to Act; Appointment of Successor Servicer. (a)
On and after the receipt by the Servicer of a Termination Notice pursuant to
Section 10.01 or upon a resignation by the Servicer pursuant to Section 8.05,
the Servicer shall continue to perform all servicing functions under this
Agreement until (i) in the case of any such receipt, the date specified in such
Termination Notice or otherwise specified by the Trustee in writing or, if no
such date is specified in such Termination Notice or otherwise specified by the
Trustee, until the earlier of a date agreed upon by the Servicer and the Trustee
or a date specified by the Trustee in a written notice to the Servicer, and (ii)
in the case of any such resignation, the date the Trustee or a Successor
Servicer shall have assumed the responsibilities and obligations of the Servicer
pursuant to this Section 10.02. The Trustee shall as promptly as possible after
the giving of a Termination Notice or such a resignation appoint an Eligible
Servicer as a successor servicer (the "Successor Servicer"), subject to the
consent of any Enhancement Provider and if specified in any Supplement, the
consent of a Majority in Interest of such Series, which consent shall not be
unreasonably withheld, and such Successor Servicer shall accept its appointment
by a written assumption in a form acceptable to the Trustee. In the event that a
Successor Servicer has not been appointed or has not accepted its appointment by
the earlier of 30 days after the date of such Termination Notice or at the time
when the Servicer ceases to act as Servicer, the Trustee without further action
shall automatically be appointed the Successor Servicer. The Trustee may
delegate any of its servicing obligations to an affiliate or agent in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Trustee
shall, if it is legally unable so to act as Successor Servicer, petition a court
of competent jurisdiction to appoint any established institution that is an
Eligible Servicer (other than the Trustee) as the Successor Servicer hereunder.

         (b) Upon its appointment, the Successor Servicer shall be the successor
in all respects to the Servicer with respect to


                                       82
<PAGE>   89
servicing functions under this Agreement and shall be subject to all the
responsibilities, duties and liabilities relating thereto placed on the Servicer
by the terms and provisions hereof, and all references in this Agreement to the
Servicer shall be deemed to refer to such Successor Servicer; provided, however,
that neither the Trustee (solely in its capacity as such) nor any Successor
Servicer shall be deemed in default hereunder as a result of the predecessor
Servicer's failure to deliver necessary Trust Assets, documents, or records to
the Trustee (solely in its capacity as such) or to such Successor Servicer; and
provided further, that the Successor Servicer shall not be liable for any acts
or omissions of the Servicer occurring prior to such succession or for any
breach by the Servicer of any of its representations and warranties contained
herein or in any related document or agreement. The Successor Servicer shall be
reimbursed for any reasonable transition expenses incurred pursuant to a Service
Transfer in accordance with Section 3.02(b). Any Successor Servicer, by its
acceptance of its appointment, will automatically agree to be bound by the terms
and provisions of any Enhancement Agreement.

         (c) In connection with any Termination Notice, the Trustee shall be
permitted to appoint any Eligible Servicer as a Successor Servicer for servicing
compensation not in excess of the Servicing Fee.

         (d) All authority and power granted to the Successor Servicer under
this Agreement shall automatically terminate upon termination of the Trust and
shall pass to and be vested in the Transferor and, without limitation, the
Transferor is hereby authorized and empowered to execute and deliver, on behalf
of the Successor Servicer, as attorney-in-fact or otherwise, all documents and
other instruments, and to do and accomplish all other acts or things necessary
or appropriate to effect the purposes of such transfer of servicing rights. The
Successor Servicer agrees to cooperate with the Transferor in effecting the
termination of the responsibilities and rights of the Successor Servicer to
conduct servicing of the Receivables. Upon such termination of the Trust, the
Successor Servicer shall transfer its electronic records relating to the
Receivables to the Transferor in such electronic form as the Transferor may
reasonably request and shall transfer all other records, correspondence and
documents to the Transferor in the manner and at such times and the Transferor
shall reasonably request.

         SECTION 10.03. Notification to Certificateholders. Promptly and in any
event within two Business Days after a Responsible Officer of the Servicer
obtains knowledge of any Servicer Default, the Servicer shall give written
notice thereof to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, and the Trustee shall
promptly deliver a copy of such notice to the Certificateholders and each Rating
Agency. Upon any termination or appointment of a Successor Servicer pursuant to
this Article X, the Trustee shall



                                       83
<PAGE>   90
give prompt written notice thereof to the Transferor and the Certificateholders.


                                       84
<PAGE>   91
                                   ARTICLE XI

                                   THE TRUSTEE

         SECTION 11.01. Duties of the Trustee. (a) Other than while acting in
its capacity as Successor Servicer, the Trustee, prior to the occurrence of a
Servicer Default of which it has actual knowledge and after the curing of all
Servicer Defaults which may have occurred, undertakes to perform such duties and
only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Agreement and no implied
duties or covenants shall be read into this Agreement against the Trustee. If a
Servicer Default to the actual knowledge of the Trustee has occurred (which has
not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and
powers vested in it by this Agreement and use the same degree of care and skill
in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the
circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.

         (b) The Trustee, upon receipt of any resolutions, certificates,
statements, opinions, reports, documents, orders or other instruments furnished
to the Trustee which are specifically required to be furnished pursuant to any
provision of this Agreement or any Supplement, shall examine them to determine
whether they substantially conform to the requirements of this Agreement or any
Supplement. The Trustee shall give prompt written notice to the
Certificateholders and each Rating Agency of any material lack of conformity of
any such instrument to the applicable requirements of this Agreement or any
Supplement discovered by the Trustee which would entitle a specified percentage
of the Investor Certificateholders to take any action pursuant to this Agreement
or any Supplement.

         (c) Subject to Section 11.01(a), no provision of this Agreement shall
be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action,
its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct; provided,
however, that:

         (i)  the Trustee shall not be personally liable for an error of 
     judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or Responsible
     Officers of the Trustee, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was
     negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;

         (ii) the Trustee shall not be personally liable with respect to any
     action taken, suffered or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in
     accordance with the direction of a Majority in Interest of each outstanding
     Series relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding
     for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power
     conferred upon the Trustee, under this Agreement; and



                                       85
<PAGE>   92
         (iii) the Trustee shall not be charged with knowledge of any failure by
     the Servicer to comply with the obligations of the Servicer referred to in
     Section 10.01 unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee obtains actual
     knowledge of such failure or the Trustee receives written notice of such
     failure from the Servicer or Certificateholders of any outstanding Series
     evidencing not less than 20% of the Invested Amount for such Series.

         (d)   The Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds
or otherwise incur financial liability in the performance of any of its duties
hereunder or under any Supplement or in the exercise of any of its rights or
powers, if there is reasonable ground for believing that the repayment of such
funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably
assured to it, and none of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall in
any event require the Trustee to perform, or be responsible for the manner of
performance of, any obligations of the Servicer under this Agreement except
during such time, if any, as the Trustee shall be the successor to, and be
vested with the rights, duties, powers and privileges of, the Servicer in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

         (e)   Except for actions expressly authorized by this Agreement, the
Trustee shall take no action reasonably likely to impair the interests of the
Trust in any Receivable now existing or hereafter created or to impair the value
of any Receivable now existing or hereafter created.

         (f)   Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the Trustee shall
have no power to vary the corpus of the Trust including, without limitation, by
(i) accepting any substitute obligation for a Receivable initially Transferred
to the Trust under Section 2.01, (ii) adding any other investment, obligation or
security to the Trust, or (iii) withdrawing from the Trust any Receivable.

         (g)   In the event that the Transfer Agent and Registrar shall fail to
perform any obligation, duty or agreement in the manner or on the day required
to be performed by the Transfer Agent and Registrar, as the case may be, under
this Agreement or under any Supplement, the Trustee shall be obligated promptly
upon its actual knowledge thereof to perform such obligation, duty or agreement
in the manner so required.

         (h)   The Trustee shall have no responsibility or liability for
investment losses on Eligible Investments.

         (i)   Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, the Trustee
is not acting as, and shall not be deemed to be, a fiduciary for any Enhancement
Provider in its capacity as such or as a Beneficiary, and the Trustee's sole
responsibility



                                       86
<PAGE>   93
with respect to any such Enhancement Provider shall be to perform those duties
with respect to any such Enhancement Provider as are specifically set forth
herein and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this Agreement
against the Trustee with respect to any such Enhancement Provider.

         (j) The Trustee shall notify each Rating Agency (i) of any notice which
the Trustee receives pursuant to Sections 2.05(g)(i), 2.05(h) or 3.04(h)(i),
(ii) of any change in any rating of the Certificates of any other Rating Agency,
(iii) immediately of the occurrence of any Trust Early Amortization Event under
Article IX or of any indication from the Servicer of potential Trust Early
Amortization Events and (iv) monthly that no Early Amortization Events or
Servicer Defaults have occurred and are continuing.

         (k) The Trustee shall, with respect to each Daily Report, (A) compare
the Collections reported that day by the Servicer to the actual Collections
deposited to the Concentration Account, (B) with respect to the reconciliation
of each of the Series Accounts, compare the beginning balance as reported by the
Servicer to the amount on deposit in the Series Accounts per the accounting
records of the Trustee and (C) perform each of the account transfers set forth
in the Daily Report, as directed by the Servicer.

         (l) The Trustee shall, with respect to each Determination Date
Certificate, with respect to the reconciliation of each of the Series Accounts,
compare the beginning and ending balances to the amounts which were on deposit
in the Series Accounts per the accounting records of the Trustee as of the
applicable data.

         (m) The Trustee shall aggregate the amount of Receivables reported in
each monthly disk sent by the Servicer (i) not less than four times per year and
shall compare the result against the ending total receivables as reported in the
Determination Date Certificate for the corresponding Collection Period, and (ii)
in the event of the occurrence and continuance of an Early Amortization Event,
not less than on a monthly basis and shall compare the result against the ending
total receivables as reported in the Determination Date Certificate for the
corresponding Collection Period.

         (n) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any
Supplement, upon discovery of any material discrepancy between the amounts
reported by the Servicer and the amounts calculated as provided above, the
Servicer shall have ten days to resolve such discrepancy before the Trustee
shall be obligated to give notice to the Certificateholders and each Rating
Agency.



                                       87
<PAGE>   94
         (o) The Trustee will deliver the Monthly Trustee Certificate (in the
form of Exhibit H) to the Rating Agencies.

         SECTION 11.02. Certain Matters Affecting the Trustee. Except as
otherwise provided in Section 11.01:

         (a) the Trustee may rely on and shall be protected in acting on, or in
refraining from acting in accord with, any resolution, Officer's Certificate,
certificate of auditors or any other certificate, statement, instrument,
opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, bond or other paper
or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented to
it pursuant to this Agreement by the proper party or parties;

         (b) the Trustee may consult with counsel and as a condition to taking,
suffering or omitting to take any action, may demand an Opinion of Counsel, and
any advice or opinion of counsel shall be full and complete authorization and
protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted by it hereunder
in good faith and in accordance with such advice or opinion of counsel;

         (c) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the
rights or powers vested in it by this Agreement, or to institute, conduct or
defend any litigation hereunder or in relation hereto, at the request, order or
direction of any of the Certificateholders, pursuant to the provisions of this
Agreement, unless such Certificateholders shall have offered to the Trustee
reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities
which may be incurred therein or thereby; provided, however, that nothing
contained herein shall relieve the Trustee of the obligations, upon the
occurrence of a Servicer Default (which has not been cured or waived), to
exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Agreement, and to
use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise as a prudent man would
exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs;

         (d) the Trustee shall not be personally liable for any action taken,
suffered or omitted by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or
within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Agreement;

         (e) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the
facts of matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument,
opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, appraisal, approval, bond or
other paper or document, unless requested in writing so to do by
Certificateholders of any outstanding Series evidencing not less than 20% of the
Invested Amount for such Series;

         (f) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or
perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or
attorneys or a custodian, and the Trustee shall



                                       88
<PAGE>   95
not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any such
agent, attorney or custodian appointed with due care by it hereunder;

         (g) except as required by Section 11.01(b), the Trustee shall not be
required to make any initial or periodic examination of any documents or records
related to the Receivables for the purpose of establishing the presence or
absence of defects, the compliance by the Transferor with its representations
and warranties or for any other purpose; and

         (h) nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to require the Trustee
to monitor the performance of the Servicer or act as a guarantor of the
Servicer's performance.

         SECTION 11.03. Trustee Not Liable for Recitals in Certificates or
Receivables. The Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the
recitals contained herein and in the Certificates (other than the certificate of
authentication on the Certificates). Except as set forth in Section 11.15, the
Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this
Agreement or of the Certificates (other than the certificate of authentication
on the Certificates) or of any Receivable or related document. The Trustee shall
not be accountable for the use or application by the Transferor of any of the
Certificates or of the proceeds of such Certificates, or for the use or
application of any funds paid to the Transferor in respect of the Receivables or
deposited in or withdrawn from the Concentration Account, any Dell Collection
Account, the Transferor's Account, the Trustee's Account or any other account
hereafter established to effectuate the transactions contemplated by and in
accordance with the terms of this Agreement and any Supplement. The Trustee
shall at no time have any responsibility or liability for or with respect to the
legality, validity and enforceability of any security interest in any
Receivable, or the perfection and priority of such security interest or the
maintenance of any such perfection and priority or the accuracy, content or
completeness of any offering documents used in connection with the sale of the
Certificates.

         SECTION 11.04. Trustee May Own Certificates. The Trustee in its
individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Investor
Certificates and may otherwise deal, and transact banking business, with the
Servicer and the Transferor with the same rights as it would have if it were not
the Trustee.

         SECTION 11.05. Compensation; Trustee's Expenses. (a) The Trustee shall
be entitled to receive a monthly Trustee's fee (which shall not be limited by
any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express
trust, such fee being the "Trustee's Fee") in respect of each Collection Period
(or portion thereof) from the date hereof until the termination of the
Amortization Period, payable in arrears on each Distribution Date



                                       89
<PAGE>   96
in an amount agreed upon in writing by the Trustee and the Transferor. The
Trustee's Fee shall be the aggregate of the Series Trustee's Fees specified in
the Supplements. The Trustee's Fee shall be payable, first, from Investor
Collections pursuant to, and subject to the priority of payment set forth in,
Section 5.01 of the applicable Supplement, second, to the extent not paid from
Investor Collections, by the Transferor, third, to the extent not paid from
Investor Collections or by the Transferor, by the Servicer pursuant to Section
3.02(b) and fourth, from Dell pursuant to the Parent Undertaking Agreement.

         (b) Expenses. The Transferor will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its
request, and if the Transferor shall fail to do so, the Servicer will so pay or
reimburse the Trustee (with a right to reimbursement from the Transferor)
pursuant to Section 3.02(b), and if both the Transferor and the Servicer shall
fail to do so, Dell will so pay or reimburse the Trustee (with a right to
reimbursement from the Transferor) pursuant to the Parent Undertaking Agreement,
for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the
Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Agreement or any
Supplement or in connection with any amendment hereto (including the reasonable
fees and expenses of its agents, any co-trustee and counsel and fees incurred in
connection with a Servicer Default or a Trust Early Amortization Event) except
any such expense, disbursement or advance as may arise from its gross negligence
or bad faith and except as provided in the following sentence. If the Trustee is
appointed Successor Servicer pursuant to Section 10.02, the provision of this
Section 11.05 shall not apply to expenses, disbursements and advances made or
incurred by the Trustee in its capacity as Successor Servicer (other than any
expenses incurred in connection with the Service Transfer), which shall be paid
first out of the Servicing Fee and second, to the extent not paid out of the
Servicing Fee, by the Transferor or Dell pursuant to Section 3.02(b). The
Transferor's and Servicer's covenant provided in this Section 11.05 shall
survive the termination of the Trust.

         SECTION 11.06. Eligibility Requirements for Trustee. The Trustee
hereunder shall at all times be an Eligible Institution. If the Trustee
publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the
requirements of any supervising or examining authority, then, for the purpose of
this Section 11.06, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall
be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent
report of condition so published. In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to
be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.06, the Trustee
shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section
11.07.

         SECTION 11.07. Resignation or Removal of Trustee. (a) The Trustee may
at any time resign and be discharged from the trust



                                       90
<PAGE>   97
hereby created by giving 30 days' written notice thereof to the Transferor and
the Servicer. Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Servicer shall
promptly appoint a successor trustee acceptable to a Majority in Interest of
each outstanding Series by written instrument, in duplicate, one copy of which
instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the
successor trustee. If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have
accepted appointment within 30 days after the giving of such notice of
resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent
jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee.

         (b) If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance
with the provisions of Section 11.06 and shall fail to resign after written
request therefor by the Servicer, or if at any time the Trustee shall be legally
unable to act, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or if a receiver of
the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed, or any public officer shall
take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the
purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then the Servicer may
remove the Trustee and promptly appoint a successor trustee acceptable to a
Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series by written instrument, in
duplicate, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so
removed and one copy to the successor trustee.

         (c) If at any time the Trustee shall fail to perform its obligations
under this Agreement, a Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series may
remove the Trustee and direct the Servicer to promptly appoint a successor
trustee acceptable to a Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series by
written instrument, in duplicate, one copy of which instrument shall be
delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee.

         (d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any resignation or
removal of the Trustee and appointment of successor trustee pursuant to any of
the provisions of this Section 11.07 shall not become effective until acceptance
of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 11.08.

         SECTION 11.08. Successor Trustee. (a) Any successor trustee appointed
as provided in Section 11.07 shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the
Transferor, to the Servicer and to its predecessor Trustee an instrument
accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal
of the predecessor Trustee shall become effective and such successor trustee,
without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become fully vested with all
the rights, powers, duties and obligations of its predecessor hereunder, with
like effect as if originally named as Trustee herein. The predecessor Trustee
shall deliver (with the expense therefor payable out of the Trustee's Fee, and
by the Transferor and the Servicer, pursuant to Sections 3.02(b) and



                                       91
<PAGE>   98
11.05(b)) to the successor trustee all documents or copies thereof and
statements held by it hereunder; and the Transferor and the predecessor Trustee
shall execute and deliver such instruments and do such other things as may
reasonably be required for fully and certainly vesting and confirming in the
successor trustee all such rights, powers, duties and obligations.

         (b) No successor trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this
Section 11.08 unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall
be eligible under the provisions of Section 11.06.

         (c) Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided
in this Section 11.08, such successor trustee shall mail notice of such
succession hereunder to all Investor Certificateholders and each Rating Agency.

         SECTION 11.09. Merger or Consolidation of Trustee. Any Person into
which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be
consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or
consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to
the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the
Trustee hereunder, provided that such corporation shall be eligible under the
provisions of Section 11.06, without the execution or filing of any paper or any
further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the
contrary notwithstanding.

         SECTION 11.10. Appointment of Co-Trustee or Separate Trustee. (a)
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, at any time, for the
purpose of meeting any legal requirements of any jurisdiction in which any part
of the Trust may at the time be located, the Trustee shall have the power and
may execute and deliver all instruments to appoint one or more Persons to act as
a co-trustee or co-trustees, or separate trustee or separate trustees, of all or
any part of the Trust, and to vest in such Person or Persons, in such capacity
and for the benefit of the Certificateholders, such title to the Trust, or any
part thereof, and, subject to the other provisions of this Section 11.10, such
powers, duties, obligations, rights and trusts as the Trustee may consider
necessary or desirable. No co-trustee or separate trustee hereunder shall be
required to meet the terms of eligibility as a successor trustee under Section
11.06 and no notice to Certificateholders of the appointment of any co-trustee
or separate trustee shall be required under Section 11.08.

         (b) Every separate trustee and co-trustee shall, to the extent
permitted by law, be appointed and act subject to the following provisions and
conditions:

         (i) all rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred or imposed
     upon the Trustee shall be conferred or imposed upon



                                       92
<PAGE>   99
     and exercised or performed by the Trustee and such separate trustee or
     co-trustee jointly (it being understood that such separate trustee or
     co-trustee is not authorized to act separately without the Trustee joining
     in such act), except to the extent that under any law of any jurisdiction
     in which any particular act or acts are to be performed (whether as Trustee
     hereunder or as Successor Servicer hereunder), the Trustee shall be
     incompetent or unqualified to perform such act or acts, in which event such
     rights, powers, duties and obligations (including the holding of title to
     the Trust or any portion thereof in any such jurisdiction) shall be
     exercised and performed singly by such separate trustee or co-trustee, but
     solely at the direction of the Trustee;

         (ii)  no trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any
     act or omission of any other trustee hereunder; and

         (iii) the Trustee may at any time accept the resignation of or remove
     any separate trustee or co-trustee.

         (c)   Any notice, request or other writing given to the Trustee shall
be deemed to have been given to each of the then separate trustees and
co-trustees, as effectively as if given to each of them. Every instrument
appointing any separate trustee or co-trustee shall refer to this Agreement and
the conditions of this Article XI. Each separate trustee and co-trustee, upon
its acceptance of the trusts conferred, shall be vested with the estates or
property specified in its instrument of appointment, either jointly with the
Trustee or separately, as may be provided therein, subject to all the provisions
of this Agreement, specifically including every provision of this Agreement
relating to the conduct of, affecting the liability of, or affording protection
to, the Trustee. Every such instrument shall be filed with the Trustee and a
copy thereof given to the Servicer.

         (d)   Any separate trustee or co-trustee may at any time constitute the
Trustee, its agent or attorney-in-fact with full power and authority, to the
extent not prohibited by law, to do any lawful act under or in respect of this
Agreement on its behalf and in its name. If any separate trustee or co-trustee
shall die, become incapable of acting, resign or be removed, all its estates,
properties, rights, remedies and trusts shall vest in and be exercised by the
Trustee, to the extent permitted by law, without the appointment of a new or
successor trustee.

         SECTION 11.11. Tax Returns. No federal income tax return shall be filed
on behalf of the Trust unless either (i) the Trustee or the Servicer shall
receive an Opinion of Counsel based on a change in applicable law occurring
after the date hereof that the Internal Revenue Code requires such a filing or
(ii) the Internal Revenue Service shall determine that the Trust is required



                                       93
<PAGE>   100
to file such a return. In the event the Trust shall be required to file tax
returns, the Servicer shall prepare or shall cause to be prepared any tax
returns required to be filed by the Trust and shall remit such returns to the
Trustee for signature at least five days before such returns are due to be
filed; the Trustee shall promptly sign such returns and deliver such returns
after signature to the Servicer and such returns shall be filed by the Servicer.
The Servicer in accordance with the Supplements shall also prepare or shall
cause to be prepared all tax information required by law to be distributed to
Investor Certificateholders and shall deliver such information to the Trustee at
least five days prior to the date it is required by law to be distributed to the
Certificateholders. The Trustee, upon request, will furnish the Servicer with
all such information known to the Trustee as may be reasonably required in
connection with the preparation of all tax returns of the Trust, and shall, upon
request, execute such returns. In no event shall the Trustee, the Servicer or
the Transferor be liable for any liabilities, costs or expenses of the Trust or
the Investor Certificateholders arising out of the application of any tax law,
including federal, state, foreign or local income or franchise taxes or any
other tax imposed on or measured by income (or any interest, penalty or addition
to tax with respect thereto or arising from a failure to comply therewith).

         SECTION 11.12. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of
Certificates. All rights of action and claims under this Agreement or the
Certificates may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the
possession of any of the Certificates or the production thereof in any
proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee
shall be brought in its own name as trustee. Any recovery of judgment shall,
after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses,
disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the
benefit of the Certificateholders in respect of which such judgment has been
obtained.

         SECTION 11.13. Suits for Enforcement. (a) If a Servicer Default shall
occur and be continuing, the Trustee, in its discretion may, subject to the
provisions of Sections 11.01 and 11.14, proceed to protect and enforce its
rights and the rights of the Certificateholders under this Agreement by suit,
action or proceeding in equity or at law or otherwise, whether for the specific
performance of any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement or in aid
of the execution of any power granted in this Agreement or for the enforcement
of any other legal, equitable or other remedy as the Trustee, being advised by
counsel, shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any of the rights of
the Trustee or the Certificateholders.

         (b) Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee
to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt



                                       94
<PAGE>   101
on behalf of any Certificateholder any plan of reorganization, arrangement,
adjustment or composition affecting the Certificates or the rights of any Holder
thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any
Certificateholder in any such proceeding.

         SECTION 11.14. Rights of Certificateholders to Direct Trustee. A
Majority in Interest of any outstanding Series shall have the right to direct
the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy
available to the Trustee under any Transaction Document, or exercising any trust
or power conferred on the Trustee under any Transaction Document; provided,
however, that subject to Section 11.01, the Trustee shall have the right to
decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee after being advised by
counsel determines that the action so directed may not lawfully be taken, or if
the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer or Responsible
Officers of the Trustee, determine that the proceedings so directed would be
illegal or involve it in personal liability or be unduly prejudicial to the
rights of Certificateholders not parties to such direction.

         SECTION 11.15. Representations and Warranties of Trustee. The Trustee
represents and warrants that:

         (a) the Trustee is a national banking association duly organized,
validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the United States of
America, and has the power to own its assets and to transact the business in
which it is presently engaged;

         (b) the Trustee has full power, authority and right to execute, deliver
and perform this Agreement, and has taken all necessary action to authorize the
execution, delivery and performance by it of this Agreement; and

         (c) this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Trustee.

         SECTION 11.16. Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Trustee will
maintain at its expense in Minneapolis, Minnesota, an office or agency (the
"Corporate Trust Office") where notices and demands to or upon the Trustee in
respect of the Certificates and this Agreement may be served. The Trustee
initially designates its office or agency at Norwest Center, Sixth Street and
Marquette Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479, Attn: Corporate Trust
Department, as such office. The Trustee will give prompt written notice to the
Transferor and the Servicer and to Certificateholders of any change in the
location of the Certificate Register or any such office or agency.



                                       95
<PAGE>   102
                                   ARTICLE XII

                                   TERMINATION

         SECTION 12.01. Termination of Trust. The Trust and the respective
obligations and responsibilities of the Transferor, the Servicer and the Trustee
created hereby (other than the obligation of the Trustee to make payments to
Certificateholders as hereinafter set forth) shall terminate, except with
respect to the duties described in Sections 2.01(b), 3.02(b), 7.03, 8.04, 8.07,
11.05 and 12.02(b), upon the earlier to occur of (i) December 31, 2014 and (ii)
at the option of the Transferor, the last Termination Date of any Series.

         SECTION 12.02. Final Distribution. (a) The Servicer shall give the
Trustee and the Trustee shall give each Certificate- holder at least 20 days'
prior written notice of the date on which (i) the Trust is expected to terminate
in accordance with Section 12.01 and (ii) the Certificateholders may surrender
their Certificates for payment of the final distribution on and cancellation of
such Certificates. Such notice shall be accompanied by an Officer's Certificate
setting forth the information specified in Section 3.06 covering the period
during the then-current calendar year through the date of such notice. Not later
than five days after the Trustee shall receive such notice, the Trustee shall
mail notice to the Certificateholders specifying (i) the date upon which such
final distribution will be made upon presentation and surrender of such
Certificates at the office or offices therein designated, (ii) the amount of any
such final distribution and (iii) that the Distribution Date otherwise
applicable to such final distribution is not applicable, payments being made
only upon presentation and surrender of such Certificates at the office or
offices therein specified; provided, however, that such presentation and
surrender shall not be required for a Certificateholder that is an insurance
company or institutional investor. Each such Certificateholder shall surrender
its Certificate to the Trustee following receipt of the final distribution
thereon. The Trustee shall give such notice to the Transfer Agent and Registrar
at the time such notice is given to the Certificateholders.

         (b) Notwithstanding the Servicer's delivery to the Trustee, or the
Trustee's delivery to the Certificateholders, of the notices required under
Section 12.02(a), all funds then on deposit in the Concentration Account, any
Dell Collection Account, any Series Account, the Transferor's Account or the
Trustee's Account shall continue to be held in trust for the benefit of the
Certificateholders, and the Trustee shall pay such funds to the
Certificateholders upon surrender of their Certificates pursuant to, and subject
to the priorities set forth in, the applicable Supplement, as if such surrender
date were on a Distribution Date (and any excess shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of any



                                       96
<PAGE>   103
Enhancement Agreement). In the event that all Certificateholders do not
surrender their Certificates for cancellation within six months after the date
specified in the above-mentioned written notice from the Trustee, the Trustee
shall give a second written notice to the remaining Certificateholders to
surrender their Certificates for cancellation and receive the final distribution
with respect thereto. If within one year after the second notice all the
Certificates shall not have been surrendered for cancellation, the Trustee may
take appropriate steps, or may appoint an agent to take appropriate steps, to
contact the remaining Certificateholders concerning surrender of their
Certificates, and the cost thereof shall be paid out of the funds in the
Trustee's Account (if such Certificateholders are Investor Certificateholders)
or the Transferor's Account (if any such Certificateholder is the Holder of the
Transferor Certificate) held for the benefit of such Certificateholders. The
Trustee shall pay to the Transferor any monies held by it for the payment of
principal or interest that remains unclaimed for two years after the date
specified in the initial above-mentioned written notice from the Trustee. After
payment to the Transferor, Investor Certificateholders entitled to any monies
must look to the Transferor for payment as general creditors unless an
applicable abandoned property law designates another Person.

         SECTION 12.03. Transferor's Termination Rights. Upon the termination of
the Trust, the payment in full of all amounts due to the Investor
Certificateholders, payment of Trustee's fees and expenses and the surrender of
the Transferor Certificate, the Trustee shall assign and convey to the Holder of
the Transferor Certificate or its designee, without recourse, representation or
warranty (except for the representation that each Receivable and all other Trust
Assets will be free and clear of all Liens), all right, title and interest of
the Trust in and to the Receivables, whether then existing or thereafter
created, and all other Trust Assets, and all proceeds thereof except for amounts
held in any account by the Trustee pursuant to Section 12.02(b). The Trustee at
the expense of the Transferor shall execute and deliver such instruments of
transfer and assignment, in each case without recourse, representation or
warranty, as shall be prepared by the Transferor for execution by the Trustee
which are reasonably requested by the Transferor to vest in the Transferor all
right, title and interest which the Trust had in the Receivables and all other
Trust Assets.



                                       97
<PAGE>   104
                                  ARTICLE XIII

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

         SECTION 13.01. Amendment. (a) This Agreement or any Supplement may be
amended from time to time by the Servicer, the Transferor and the Trustee
without the consent of any of the Investor Certificateholders, (i) to cure any
ambiguity, (ii) to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be
inconsistent with any other provision herein or (iii) to add any other
provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Agreement or
any Supplement which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement
or such Supplement; provided that any amendment pursuant to this clause (a)
shall not, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel, adversely affect in any
material respect the interests of any Investor Certificateholders. Notice of any
amendment entered into pursuant to this paragraph shall be given to the Rating
Agencies.

         (b) This Agreement or any Supplement may be amended from time to time
by the Servicer, the Transferor and the Trustee, so long as the Rating Agency
Condition is satisfied, with the consent of a Majority in Interest of each
adversely affected Series, for the purpose of adding any provisions to or
changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Agreement or
of modifying in any manner the rights of the Certificateholders; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall (i) reduce in any manner the amount of, or
delay the timing of, distributions to be made to any Certificateholder or
deposits of amounts to be so distributed or the amount available under any
Enhancement without the consent of each such Certificateholder, (ii) change the
definition of or the manner of calculating the Certificateholders' Interest or
the Aggregate Certificateholders' Interest or any Investor Certificateholder's
interest therein without the consent of each affected Investor Certificateholder
or (iii) reduce the aforesaid percentage required to consent to any such
amendment without the consent of each Investor Certificateholder. The Trustee
may request an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel with respect to an
amendment entered into pursuant to this Section 13.01(b) concerning compliance
with the requirements of this Agreement. Any amendment to be effected pursuant
to this paragraph shall be deemed to adversely affect all outstanding Series,
other than any Series with respect to which such action shall not, as evidenced
by an Opinion of Counsel (which counsel shall not be an employee of, or counsel
for, Dell, the Servicer or the Transferor), addressed and delivered to the
Trustee, adversely affect the interests of any Investor Certificateholder of
such Series.

         (c) Promptly after the execution of any such amendment or consent
(other than an amendment pursuant to Section 13.01(a)), the Trustee shall
furnish written notification of the substance of



                                       98
<PAGE>   105
such amendment to each Investor Certificateholder and each Enhancement Provider.

         (d) It shall not be necessary for the consent of Investor
Certificateholders under this Section 13.01 to approve the particular form of
any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve
the substance thereof. The manner of obtaining such consents and of evidencing
the authorization of the execution thereof by Investor Certificate- holders
shall be subject to such reasonable requirements as the Trustee may prescribe.

         (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13.01 to the contrary, no
amendment may be made to this Agreement or any Supplement which would adversely
affect in any material respect the interests of any Enhancement Provider without
the consent of such Enhancement Provider.

         (f) Any supplement executed in accordance with the provisions of
Section 6.08 shall not be considered an amendment to this Agreement for the
purposes of this Section 13.01.

         (g) Prior to the execution of any amendment to this Agreement or any
Supplement, the Trustee and any Enhancement Provider shall be entitled to
receive and rely upon an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such
amendment is authorized or permitted by this Agreement. The Trustee may, but
shall not be obligated to, enter into any such amendment which adversely affects
the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Agreement, any
Supplement or otherwise.

         SECTION 13.02. Protection of Right, Title and Interest to Trust. (a)
The Servicer shall cause this Agreement, all amendments hereto and all financing
statements and continuation statements and any other necessary documents
covering the Certificateholders' and the Trustee's right, title and interest in
and to the Trust to be promptly recorded, registered and filed, and at all times
to be kept recorded, registered and filed, all in such manner and in such places
as may be required by law to preserve and protect fully the right, title and
interest of the Certificate- holders and the Trustee hereunder in and to all
property comprising the Trust. The Servicer shall deliver to the Trustee
file-stamped copies of, or filing receipts for, each document recorded,
registered or filed as provided above, as soon as available following such
recording, registration or filing. The Transferor shall cooperate fully with the
Servicer in connection with the obligations set forth above and will execute any
and all documents reasonably required to fulfill the intent of this Section
13.02(a).

         (b) Within 45 days after the Transferor makes any change in its name,
identity or legal structure which would make any financing statement or
continuation statement filed in accordance



                                       99
<PAGE>   106
with the terms of this Agreement seriously misleading within the meaning of
Section 9-402(7) (or any comparable provision) of the UCC as in effect in the
jurisdiction the law of which governs the perfection of the interest in the
Trust Assets created hereunder, the Transferor shall give the Trustee notice of
such change and shall file such financing statements or amendments as may be
necessary to continue the perfection of the Trust's interest in the Trust Assets
and the proceeds thereof contemplated by Section 2.01.

         (c) The Transferor and the Servicer will give the Trustee prompt
written notice of any relocation of the office from which it services
Receivables or keeps records concerning the Receivables or of its principal
executive office and whether, as a result of such relocation, the applicable
provisions of the UCC would require the filing of any amendment of any
previously filed financing or continuation statement or of any new financing
statement and shall file such financing statements or amendments as may be
necessary to perfect or to continue the perfection of the Trust's interest in
the Receivables and the other Trust Assets and the proceeds thereof contemplated
by Section 2.01. The Transferor and the Servicer will at all times maintain each
office from which it services Receivables and its principal executive offices
within the United States of America.

         SECTION 13.03. Limitation on Rights of Certificate- holders. (a) The
death or incapacity of any Investor Certificate- holder shall not operate to
terminate this Agreement or the Trust, nor shall such death or incapacity
entitle such Investor Certificateholders' legal representatives or heirs to
claim an accounting or to take any action or commence any proceeding in any
court for a partition or winding up of the Trust, nor otherwise affect the
rights, obligations and liabilities of the parties hereto or any of them.

         (b) No Certificateholder shall have the right to vote (except as
expressly provided in this Agreement, including without limitation under Section
11.14) or in any manner otherwise control the operation and management of the
Trust, or the obligations of the parties hereto, nor shall anything herein set
forth, or contained in the terms of the Certificates, be construed so as to
constitute the Certificateholders from time to time as partners or members of an
association for any reason, nor shall any Investor Certificateholder be under
any liability to any third person by reason of any action taken by the parties
to this Agreement pursuant to any provision hereof.

         (c) No Investor Certificateholder shall have any right by virtue of any
provisions of this Agreement to file or otherwise institute any suit, action or
proceeding in equity or at law upon or under or with respect to this Agreement,
unless such Investor Certificateholder previously shall have made, and unless a
Majority in Interest of each outstanding Series shall have made, a written



                                       100
<PAGE>   107
request to the Trustee to institute such action, suit or proceeding in its own
name as Trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee such reasonable
indemnity as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be
incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee, for 60 days after such request and
offer of indemnity, shall have failed to file or otherwise refused to institute
any such action, suit or proceeding; it being understood and intended, and being
expressly covenanted, by each Certificate- holder with every other
Certificateholder and the Trustee, that no one or more Certificateholders shall
have any right in any manner whatever by virtue or by availing itself or
themselves of any provisions of this Agreement to affect, disturb or prejudice
the rights of the Holders of any of the Investor Certificates, or to obtain or
seek to obtain priority over or preference to any such Investor
Certificateholder, or to enforce any right under this Agreement, except in the
manner herein provided. For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of
this Section 13.03, each and every Investor Certificateholder and the Trustee
shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Certificates or any
Supplement, each Investor Certificateholder shall have the right to receive the
payments of all amounts due hereunder, under the Certificates held by such
Holder and under the Supplement relating to the Series of Certificates held by
such Holder and the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such
payment without the consent of the Trustee or any other Holder.

         (d) By its acceptance of the Transferor Certificate, the Holder thereof
agrees that it will take no action with respect to such Holder's rights under
the Agreement that is inconsistent with, or adverse to, the interests of the
Investor Certificateholders.

         SECTION 13.04. Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of
Process.

         (a) Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF
THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE
INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ITS CONFLICT OF LAW
PROVISIONS, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE PERFECTION OF THE INTERESTS OF THE
TRUSTEE IN THE TRUST ASSETS IS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF A JURISDICTION OTHER THAN
THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

         (b) Jurisdiction. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State
court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City,
and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising
out of or relating to this Agreement, and each of the parties hereto hereby
irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that all claims in respect of any
such action or proceeding may be



                                       101
<PAGE>   108
heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law,
such federal court and (ii) waives the defense of an inconvenient forum. Each of
the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding
shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the
judgment or in any other manner provided by law.

         (c) Consent to Service of Process. Each party to this Agreement
irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery, certified mail,
postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the
right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner
permitted by law.

         (d) Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party to this Agreement waives any right
to a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to enforce or defend any rights
under or relating to this Agreement, any other Transaction Document, the Fee
Letter or any amendment, instrument, document or agreement delivered or which
may in the future be delivered in connection herewith or therewith or arising
from any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether verbal of
written), actions of any of the parties hereto and the Liquidity Providers or
any other relationship existing in connection with this Agreement of any other
Transaction Document or the Fee Letter, and agrees that any such action or
proceeding shall be tried before a court and not before a jury.

         SECTION 13.05. Notices; Payments. (a) All notices and other
communications provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be
in writing (including telex and facsimile communication) and shall be personally
delivered or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, or overnight courier or
facsimile, to the intended party at the address or facsimile number of such
party set forth below or at such other address or facsimile number as shall be
designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties hereto. All
such notices and communications shall be effective (a) if personally delivered,
when received, (b) if sent by certified mail, four Business Days after having
been deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, (c) if sent by overnight courier,
two Business Days after having been given to such courier, unless sooner
received by the addressee and (d) if transmitted by facsimile, when sent, upon
receipt confirmed by telephone or electronic means. Notices and communications
sent hereunder on a day that is not a Business Day shall be deemed to have been
sent on the following Business Day.



                                       102
<PAGE>   109
         If to the Transferor,

         Dell Receivables L.P.
         2112 Kramer Lane
         Austin, Texas  78758
         Tel: (512) 728-5829
         Fax: (512) 728-5986
         Attn: Assistant Treasurer

         If to the Servicer,

         Dell USA L.P.
         2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
         Austin, Texas  78758
         Tel: (512) 728-3343
         Fax: (512) 728-0043
         Attn: Treasurer

         If to the Trustee,

         Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association
         Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue
         Minneapolis, Minnesota  55479
         Tel: (612) 667-4610
         Fax: (612) 667-9825
         Attn: Corporate Trust Department - Tom Wraalstad

         If to the Transfer Agent and Paying Registrar,

         Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association
         Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue
         Minneapolis, Minnesota  55479
         Tel: (612) 667-4610
         Fax: (612) 667-9825
         Attn: Corporate Trust Department - Tom Wraalstad

If the Servicer is not Dell USA L.P., notices shall be given to the Servicer at
the address designated by such Servicer, with a copy to Dell USA L.P. at the
address designated above.

         (b) Any notice required or permitted to be mailed to an Investor
Certificateholder shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the
address of such Certificateholder as shown in the Certificate Register. Notice
so mailed within the time prescribed in this Agreement shall be conclusively
presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Certificateholder receives
such notice.

         (c) If the Transferor is not the Holder of the Transferor Certificate,
the Holder of the Transferor Certificate shall be entitled to receive all
notices which the Investor Certificateholders receive.



                                       103
<PAGE>   110
         SECTION 13.06. Rule 144A Information. For so long as any of the
Investor Certificates of any Series or Class are "restricted securities" within
the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Act, the Transferor, the Servicer and
any Enhancement Provider agree to cooperate with each other to provide to each
Investor Certificateholder of such Series or Class and to each prospective
purchaser of Investor Certificates designated by such an Investor
Certificateholder, upon the request of such Investor Certificateholder or
prospective purchaser, any information required to be provided to such holder or
prospective purchaser to satisfy the condition set forth in Rule 144A(d)(4)
under the Act (or any successor provision).

         SECTION 13.07. Severability of Provisions. If any one or more of the
covenants, agreements, provisions or terms of this Agreement shall for any
reason whatsoever be held invalid, then such covenants, agreements, provisions
or terms shall be deemed severable from the remaining covenants, agreements,
provisions or terms of this Agreement and shall in no way affect the validity or
enforceability of the other covenants, agreements, provisions or terms of this
Agreement or of the Certificates or rights of the Certificateholders.

         SECTION 13.08. Assignment. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained herein, (i) this Agreement may not be assigned by the Transferor, and
(ii) except as provided in Section 8.02, this Agreement may not be assigned by
the Servicer without the prior consent of a Majority in Interest of each
outstanding Series.

         SECTION 13.09. Certificates Nonassessable and Fully Paid. It is the
intention of the parties to this Agreement that the Certificateholders shall not
be personally liable for obligations of the Trust, that the interests in the
Trust represented by the Certificates shall be nonassessable for any losses or
expenses of the Trust or for any reason whatsoever and that Certificates upon
authentication thereof by the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.02 are and shall be
deemed fully paid.

         SECTION 13.10. Further Assurances. The Transferor and the Servicer
agree to do and perform, from time to time, any and all acts and to execute any
and all further instruments and documents required or reasonably requested by
the Trustee more fully to effect the purposes of this Agreement, including,
without limitation, the execution of any financing statements or continuation
statements relating to the Receivables for filing under the provisions of the
UCC of any applicable jurisdiction.

         SECTION 13.11. Nonpetition Covenant. Notwithstanding any prior
termination of the Trust, (a) the Servicer, the Trustee and the
Certificateholders shall not, prior to the date which is one year and one day
after the termination of the Trust, acquiesce,



                                       104
<PAGE>   111
petition or otherwise invoke or cause the Trust or the Transferor to invoke the
process of any Governmental Authority for the purpose of commencing or
sustaining a case against the Trust or the Transferor under any federal or state
bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or appointing a receiver, liquidator,
assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator or other similar official of the
Trust or the Transferor or any substantial part of its property or ordering the
winding-up or liquidation of the affairs of the Trust or the Transferor and (b)
the Transferor shall not, prior to the date which is one year and one day after
the termination of the Trust, acquiesce, petition or otherwise invoke or cause
the Trust to invoke the process of any Governmental Authority for the purpose of
commencing or sustaining a case against the Trust under any federal or state
bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law or appointing a receiver, liquidator,
assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator or other similar official of the
Trust or any substantial part of its property or ordering the winding-up or
liquidation of the affairs of the Trust.

         SECTION 13.12. No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies. No failure to exercise
and no delay in exercising, on the part of any Person, any right, remedy, power
or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single
or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege under this
Agreement preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any
other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and
privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exhaustive of any rights,
remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.

         SECTION 13.13. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in two or
more counterparts and by different parties on separate counterparts, each of
which shall be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and
the same instrument.

         SECTION 13.14. Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement will inure to
the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, the Certificateholders
and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Except as otherwise
provided in this Agreement, no other person will have any right or obligation
hereunder.

         SECTION 13.15. Actions by Certificateholders. (a) Wherever in this
Agreement a provision is made that an action may be taken or a Notice given by
Investor Certificateholders, such action or Notice may be taken or given by any
Investor Certificate- holder, unless such provision requires a specific
percentage of Investor Certificateholders.

         (b) Any Notice, consent, waiver or other act by the Holder of a
Certificate shall bind such Holder and every subsequent Holder of such
Certificate and of any Certificate issued upon the



                                       105
<PAGE>   112
registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in
respect of anything done or omitted to be done by the Trustee or the Servicer in
reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such
Certificate.

         SECTION 13.16. Merger and Integration. Except as specifically stated
otherwise herein, this Agreement sets forth the entire understanding of the
parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and all prior understandings,
written or oral, are superseded by this Agreement. This Agreement may not be
modified, amended, waived or supplemented except as provided herein.

         SECTION 13.17. Headings. The headings herein are for purposes of
reference only and shall not otherwise affect the meaning or interpretation of
any provision hereof.

         SECTION 13.18. Construction of Agreement. The Transferor hereby grants
to the Trustee a security interest in all of the Transferor's right, title and
interest in, to and under the Receivables now existing and hereafter created,
all monies due or to become due and all amounts received with respect thereto,
and all other Trust Assets, and all "proceeds" thereof, to secure all the
Transferor's and Servicer's obligations hereunder, including, without
limitation, the Transferor's obligation to sell or transfer to the Trust all
Receivables existing on the date hereof or hereafter created and transferred to
the Transferor from time to time under the Receivables Purchase Agreements. This
Agreement shall constitute a security agreement under applicable law.



                                       106
<PAGE>   113
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Pooling and
Servicing Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto
duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.

                                              DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.,
                                                Transferor
                                              By DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                                as its general partner

                                              By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                                 Title: PRESIDENT

                                              DELL USA L.P.,
                                                Servicer
                                              By DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                                as its general partner

                                              By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                                 Title: CHEIF FINANCIAL OFFICER

                                              NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA,
                                                NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
                                                Trustee

                                              By: /s/ Michael G. Lugar
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  MICHAEL G. LUGAR
                                                 Title: CORPORATE TRUST OFFICER
<PAGE>   114
   
    

   
                            EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES
    

   
   The following Exhibits and Schedules have been omitted from this filing:
    


   
            Exhibit A -- Form of Transferor Certificate
            Exhibit B -- Form of Annual Servicer's Certificate
            Exhibit C -- Form of Dell Collection Account Letter
            Exhibit D -- Form of Rule 144A and Non-Rule 144A Letters
            Exhibit E -- Form of Daily Report
            Exhibit F -- Credit Policy and Procedures Manual
            Exhibit G -- Form of Agreed Upon Procedures
            Exhibit H -- Form of Monthly Trustee Certificate
    

   
            Schedule I -- Dell Post-Office Boxes and Dell Collection Accounts
            Schedule II -- Originators
    

   
The registrant hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of any such
Exhibit or Schedule to the Commission upon request.
    


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.23
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>SERIES 1995-1 SUPPLEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                 EXHIBIT 10.23
    


                                                                EXECUTION COPY


                             DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.,
                                   Transferor

                                 DELL USA L.P.,
                                    Servicer

                                       and

                  NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
                                     Trustee

                            SERIES 1995-1 SUPPLEMENT

                          Dated as of November 21, 1995

                                       to

                         POOLING AND SERVICING AGREEMENT

                          Dated as of November 21, 1995

                       DELL TRADE RECEIVABLES MASTER TRUST

                                  $100,000,000

                 FLOATING RATE RECEIVABLES BACKED CERTIFICATES,
                             SERIES 1995-1, CLASS A

                                       $0

                 FLOATING RATE RECEIVABLES BACKED CERTIFICATES,
                             SERIES 1995-1, CLASS B
<PAGE>   2
                                TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
<S>            <C>                                                          <C>
                                    ARTICLE I

                   Creation of the Series 1995-1 Certificates

SECTION 1.01.  Designation................................................    2
SECTION 1.02.  Definitions................................................    2
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE II                                  
                                                                               
                              Additional Covenants                             
                                                                               
SECTION 2.01.  Covenants of the Servicer..................................   14
SECTION 2.02.  Confidentiality............................................   15
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE III                                 
                                                                               
                                  Servicing Fee                                
                                                                               
SECTION 3.01.  Servicing Compensation.....................................   16
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE IV                                  
                                                                               
                 Rights of Series 1995-1 Certificateholders and                
                    Allocation and Application of Collections                  
                                                                               
SECTION 4.01.  Establishment of Series Accounts...........................   17
SECTION 4.02.  Settlement Procedures......................................   18
                                                                               
                                    ARTICLE V                                  
                                                                               
                          Distributions and Reports to                         
                        Series 1995-1 Certificateholders                       
                                                                               
SECTION 5.01.  Distributions..............................................   24
SECTION 5.02.  Annual Certificateholders' Statement.......................   27
                                                                               
                                   ARTICLE VI                                  
                                                                               
                     Series 1995-1 Early Amortization Events                   
                                                                               
SECTION 6.01.  Series 1995-1 Early Amortization Events....................   28
</TABLE>


                                        i
<PAGE>   3
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
<S>            <C>                                                          <C>
                                   ARTICLE VII

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

SECTION 7.01.  Ratification of Agreement.................................    31
SECTION 7.02.  Counterparts..............................................    31
SECTION 7.03.  Governing Law; Jurisdiction...............................    31
SECTION 7.04.  Appointment of Successor Servicer ........................    31
SECTION 7.05.  The Trustee...............................................    32
SECTION 7.06.  Assignment by Purchasers and Liquidity                          
                           Providers.....................................    32
SECTION 7.07.  No Assignability by Transferor and Servicer...............    32
SECTION 7.08.  Amendments................................................    32


SCHEDULE I        Series 1995-1 Accounts and Paying Agent's Account


EXHIBIT A Form of Series 1995-1 Class A Certificate 
EXHIBIT B Form of Series 1995-1 Class B Certificate 
EXHIBIT C Form of Determination Date Certificate
EXHIBIT D Form of Daily Report 
EXHIBIT E Form of Officer's Certificate
</TABLE>


                                       ii
<PAGE>   4
         SERIES 1995-1 SUPPLEMENT, dated as of November 21, 1995 (this "Series
Supplement"), among DELL RECEIVABLES L.P., a Texas limited partnership, as
Transferor (the "Transferor"), DELL USA L.P., a Texas limited partnership, as
Servicer (the "Servicer"), and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as
Trustee (the "Trustee").

                              PRELIMINARY STATEMENT

         Pursuant to Section 6.08 of the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, dated
as of November 21, 1995 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, the
"Agreement"), among the Transferor, the Servicer and the Trustee, the Transferor
may from time to time direct the Trustee to issue, on behalf of the Trust, one
or more Series of Investor Certificates representing fractional undivided
interests in the Trust. The Principal Terms of any new Series are to be set
forth in a Supplement to the Agreement. Accordingly, the Transferor hereby
enters into this Series Supplement with the Servicer and the Trustee as required
by Section 6.08 of the Agreement to provide for the issuance, authentication and
delivery of the Floating Rate Receivables Backed Certificates, Series 1995-1,
Class A (the "Class A Certificates") and the Floating Rate Receivables Backed
Certificates, Series 1995-1, Class B (the "Class B Certificates") (the Class A
Certificates and the Class B Certificates are referred to collectively as the
"Series 1995-1 Certificates").

         Pursuant to this Series Supplement, the Transferor and the Trustee
shall create a Series of Investor Certificates and specify the Principal Terms
thereof.


                                        1
<PAGE>   5
                                    ARTICLE I

                   Creation of the Series 1995-1 Certificates

         SECTION 1.01. Designation. (a) The Series 1995-1 Certificates shall be
designated generally as Floating Rate Receivables Backed Certificates, Series
1995-1, Class A and as Floating Rate Receivables Backed Certificates, Series
1995-1, Class B.

         (b)   In the event that any term or provision contained herein shall
conflict with or be inconsistent with any term or provision contained in the
Agreement, the terms and provisions of this Series Supplement shall govern.

         SECTION 1.02. Definitions. (a) Whenever used in this Series Supplement
the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings.

         "Alternate Base Rate" shall mean a fluctuating interest rate per annum
as shall be in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times
be equal to the highest of:

         (i)   the rate of interest announced publicly by the Reference Bank in
     New York, New York, from time to time as the Reference Bank's base rate; or

         (ii)  1.50% per annum above the latest three-week moving average of
     secondary market morning offering rates in the United States for
     three-month certificates of deposit of major United States money market
     banks, such three-week moving average being determined weekly on each
     Monday (or, if any such day is not a Business Day on the next succeeding
     Business Day) for the three-week period ending on the previous Friday by
     the Reference Bank on the basis of such rates reported by certificate of
     deposit dealers to and published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in
     Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15(519) or, if such publication shall
     be suspended or terminated, on the basis of quotations for the latest
     three-week average of secondary market morning offering rates received by
     the Reference Bank from three New York certificate of deposit dealers of
     recognized standing selected by the Reference Bank, in either case adjusted
     to the nearest 1/4 of one percent or, if there is no nearest 1/4 of one
     percent, to the next higher 1/4 of one percent; or

         (iii) 1.50% per annum above the Federal Funds Rate.

         "Amortization Date" shall mean the last day of the 57th month following
the month during which the Closing Date shall have occurred.



                                        2
<PAGE>   6
         "Assignee Rate" shall mean an interest rate per annum equal to the
Adjusted Eurodollar Rate (as defined in the Certificate Purchase Agreement);
provided, however, that (i) if it shall become unlawful for the Reference Bank
to obtain funds in the London interbank market in order to purchase, fund or
maintain any Increase hereunder or deposits in dollars (in the applicable
amounts) are not being offered by the Reference Bank in the London interbank
market, then the "Assignee Rate" shall be the Alternate Base Rate in effect from
time to time; and (ii) following the occurrence and during the continuation of
an Early Amortization Period, the "Assignee Rate" shall be the applicable
interest rate per annum determined pursuant to provisions set forth above plus
2% per annum.

         "Breakage Costs" shall mean (a) with respect to CRC and for each
Collection Period during which the Class A Invested Amount or the Class B
Invested Amount is reduced, the amount, if any, by which (i) the additional
interest at the Class A Certificate Rate or the Class B Certificate Rate, as
appropriate (calculated without taking into account any Breakage Costs), which
would have accrued on the reduction of the Class A Invested Amount or the Class
B Invested Amount, as appropriate, through the last day of such Collection
Period exceeds (ii) the income received by CRC from investing the proceeds of
such reductions of Class A Invested Amount or Class B Invested Amount, as
appropriate; provided that if the Transferor gives five Business Days' notice to
the Program Agent that it intends to reduce the Class A Invested Amount or Class
B Invested Amount, as appropriate, and the Program Agent agrees to such
reduction (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld), then no Breakage
Costs will arise or (b) with respect to a Liquidity Provider and for each
Collection Period during which the Class A Invested Amount or the Class B
Invested Amount is reduced, the amount, if any, by which (i) the additional
interest at the Class A Certificate Rate or the Class B Certificate Rate, as
appropriate (calculated without taking into account any Breakage Costs), which
would have accrued on the reduction of the Class A Invested Amount or the Class
B Invested Amount, as appropriate, or its pro rata portion thereof, through the
last day of the period for which the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate has been set
exceeds (ii) the income received by such Liquidity Provider from investing the
proceeds of such reductions of Class A Invested Amount or Class B Invested
Amount, as appropriate, or its pro rata portion of such Class A Invested Amount
or Class B Invested Amount, as appropriate.

         "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or
any other day on which national banking associations or state banking
institutions in New York, New York, Austin, Texas or the city in which the
Corporate Trust Office is located are authorized or obligated by law, executive
order or governmental decree to be closed; if this definition of "Business Day"
is utilized in connection with the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate (as set forth in the
Certificate Purchase Agreement), "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a
Saturday or Sunday on which dealings are carried out in the London interbank
market.



                                        3
<PAGE>   7
         "Capitalized Interest" means the principal amount of any CP Notes
issued or other funding obtained by CRC at any time to pay any interest or
discount on CP Notes or other funding of CRC allocated to the funding or
maintenance of the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount.

         "Certificate Purchase Agreement" shall mean the Certificate Purchase
Agreement, dated November 30, 1995, among the Transferor, as seller, CRC, as
purchaser, the Program Agent and the Trustee.

         "Class" shall mean either the Class A Certificates or the Class B
Certificates, as applicable.

         "Class A Accrued Warranty Reserve Factor" shall mean the product of (a)
the ratio of the highest three-month rolling average over the past twelve months
of (i) accrued warranty expenses for sales made by the Originators to (ii)
Eligible Receivables and (b) six. For purposes of this calculation, accrued
warranty expenses for the Originators will be calculated as the product of (A)
(1) sales by the Originators for the preceding month divided by (2) sales by
Dell USA Corporation for the preceding month and (B) accrued warranty expenses
for Dell USA Corporation for the preceding month.

         "Class A Certificate" shall mean any one of the Series 1995-1 Class A
Certificates executed by the Transferor and authenticated by the Trustee,
substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A.

         "Class A Certificate Rate" shall mean (a) unless the Program Agent
notifies the Transferor and the Servicer that the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount,
or a portion thereof, will not be funded by the issuance of CP Notes, the CP
Rate; or (b) to the extent the Program Agent has provided notice to the
Transferor that funding with respect to the Class A Certificates is not being
provided by the issuance of CP Notes, a per annum rate equal to the Assignee
Rate.

         "Class A Debt Service Amount" shall mean, as of any Distribution Date,
an amount equal to the aggregate amount of interest with respect to the Class A
Invested Amount which has accrued and remains unpaid (including, without
limitation, Capitalized Interest arising during the Collection Period to which
such Distribution Date relates, if any, and any interest thereon). The accrued
interest for the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount for each Collection Period used
in computing the Class A Debt Service Amount for such Collection Period shall be
determined by the Program Agent and the Program Agent shall give notice thereof
to the Transferor and the Servicer at least four (4) Business Days prior to the
Distribution Date relating to such Collection Period.

         "Class A Dynamic Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage" shall mean, as
of any date, the sum of (A) the sum of (a) the



                                        4
<PAGE>   8
product of (i) 2.5 times (ii) the average Dilution Ratio during the preceding 12
months times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the total sales for the
past one and one-half months and the denominator of which is the aggregate
outstanding balance of Eligible Receivables as of the end of the most recently
ended month times (iv) a fraction the numerator of which is 7 if the Weighted
Average Term is less than 40 days, 8 if the Weighted Average Term is greater
than or equal to 40 days but less than 50 days, 9 if the Weighted Average Term
is greater than or equal to 50 days but less than 60 days, 10 if the Weighted
Average Term is greater than or equal to 60 days but less than 70 days, or 11 if
the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 70 days and the
denominator of which is 7, plus (b) the greater of (i) the sum of (x) the
product of the Dilution Volatility Factor times the fraction specified in clause
(A)(a)(iii) above, (y) the Class A Accrued Warranty Reserve Factor and (z) the
Class A Extended Warranty Reserve Factor and (ii) the sum of (x) the product of
the 12-month rolling standard deviation of Default Ratios and 2.58 and (y) the
product of (1) the 12-month rolling standard deviation of Dilution Ratios and
(2) 2.58 and (3) the fraction specified in clause (A)(a)(iii) above and (z)
1.15% and (B) the product of (i) 2.5 times (ii) the highest Default Ratio during
the preceding 12 months times (iii) a fraction the numerator of which is the
total sales for the past five months and the denominator of which is the
aggregate outstanding balance of Eligible Receivables as of the end of the most
recently ended month times (iv) a fraction the numerator of which is 15 if the
Weighted Average Term is less than 40 days, 16 if the Weighted Average Term is
greater than or equal to 40 days but less than 50 days, 17 if the Weighted
Average Term is greater than or equal to 50 days but less than 60 days, 18 if
the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 60 days but less than 70
days, or 19 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 70 days and
the denominator of which is 15.

         "Class A Extended Warranty Factor" shall mean seventy-five percent of
the product of (a) the average monthly sales of the Originators for the
preceding nineteen months and (b) the six-month rolling average of the ratio of
(i) extended parts contract revenues for Dell USA Corporation for the preceding
month to (ii) sales for Dell USA Corporation for the preceding month and (c)
eighteen.

         "Class A Invested Amount" shall mean, when used with respect to any
date, an amount equal to (a) $0 plus (b) the aggregate amount of Increases made
under any Class A Certificate after the Closing Date minus (c) the aggregate
amount of Series 1995-1 Investor Collections received and distributed to Class A
Certificateholders in reduction of the Class A Invested Amount from time to time
on or prior to such date; provided, however, that the "Class A Invested Amount"
shall not be reduced by any amount of Series 1995-1 Investor Collections so
received and distributed if at any time such distribution of such amount of
Series 1995-1 Investor Collections is rescinded or must otherwise be returned
for any reason; and provided, further, that, on any date of



                                        5
<PAGE>   9
determination, the Class A Invested Amount shall not exceed the Class A Purchase
Limit.

         "Class A Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage" shall mean, as of any
date, the greater of (a) the Class A Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve
Percentage and (b) the Class A Dynamic Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage.

         "Class A Purchase Limit" shall mean $100,000,000 or such lesser amount
as may be mutually agreed upon by the Program Agent and the Transferor pursuant
to the Certificate Purchase Agreement.

         "Class A Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage" shall mean the
sum of (a) 18% and (b) the sum of (A) the product of (i) 2.5 times (ii) the
average Dilution Ratio during the preceding 12 months times (iii) a fraction the
numerator of which is the total sales for the past one and one-half months and
the denominator of which is the aggregate outstanding balance of Eligible
Receivables as of the end of the most recently ended month times (iv) a fraction
the numerator of which is 7 if the Weighted Average Term is less than 40 days, 8
if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 40 days but less than
50 days, 9 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 50 days but
less than 60 days, 10 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to
60 days but less than 70 days, or 11 if the Weighted Average Term is greater
than or equal to 70 days and the denominator of which is 7, plus (B) the sum of
(x) the product of the Dilution Volatility Factor times the fraction specified
in clause (b)(a)(iii) above, (y) the Class A Accrued Warranty Reserve Factor and
(z) the Class A Extended Warranty Reserve Factor; provided that the Transferor
may reduce the Class A Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage if the
Rating Agency Condition is satisfied and with the consent of a Majority in
Interest of the Holders of Class A Certificates of each outstanding Series.

         "Class B Accrued Warranty Reserve Factor" shall mean the product of (a)
the ratio of the highest three-month rolling average over the past twelve months
of (i) accrued warranty expenses for sales made by the Originators to (ii)
Eligible Receivables and (b) three. For purposes of this calculation, accrued
warranty expenses for the Originators will be calculated as the product of (A)
(1) sales by the Originators for the preceding month divided by (2) sales by
Dell USA Corporation for the preceding month and (B) accrued warranty expenses
for Dell USA Corporation for the preceding month.

         "Class B Certificate" shall mean any one of the Series 1995-1 Class B
Certificates executed by the Transferor and authenticated by the Trustee,
substantially in the form attached as Exhibit B.

         "Class B Certificate Rate" shall mean (a) unless the Program Agent
notifies the Transferor and the Servicer that the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount,
or a portion thereof, will not be



                                        6
<PAGE>   10
funded by the issuance of CP Notes, the CP Rate; or (b) to the extent the
Program Agent has provided notice to the Transferor that funding with respect to
the Class B Certificates is not being provided by the issuance of CP Notes, a
per annum rate equal to the Assignee Rate.

         "Class B Debt Service Amount" shall mean, as of any Distribution Date,
an amount equal to the aggregate amount of interest with respect to the Class B
Invested Amount which has accrued and remains unpaid (including, without
limitation, Capitalized Interest arising during the Collection Period to which
such Distribution Date relates, if any, and any interest thereon). The accrued
interest for the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount for each Collection Period used
in computing the Class B Debt Service Amount for such Collection Period shall be
determined by the Program Agent and the Program Agent shall give notice thereof
to the Transferor and the Servicer at least four (4) Business Days prior to the
Distribution Date relating to such Collection Period.

         "Class B Dynamic Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage" shall mean, as
of any date, the sum of (A) the sum of (a) the product of (i) 1.5 times (ii) the
average Dilution Ratio during the preceding 12 months times (iii) a fraction the
numerator of which is the total sales for the past one and one-half months and
the denominator of which is the aggregate outstanding balance of Eligible
Receivables as of the end of the most recently ended month times (iv) a fraction
the numerator of which is 7 if the Weighted Average Term is less than 40 days, 8
if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 40 days but less than
50 days, 9 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 50 days but
less than 60 days, 10 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to
60 days but less than 70 days, or 11 if the Weighted Average Term is greater
than or equal to 70 days and the denominator of which is 7, plus (b) the greater
of (i) the sum of (x) the product of the Dilution Volatility Factor times the
fraction specified in clause (A)(a)(iii) above, (y) the Class A Accrued Warranty
Reserve Factor and (z) the Class A Extended Warranty Reserve Factor and (ii) the
sum of (x) the product of the 12-month rolling standard deviation of Default
Ratios and 1.96 and (y) the product of (1) the 12-month rolling standard
deviation of Dilution Ratios and (2) 1.96 and (3) the fraction specified in
clause (A)(a)(iii) above and (z) 0.80% and (B) the product of (i) 1.5 times (ii)
the highest Default Ratio during the preceding 12 months times (iii) a fraction
the numerator of which is the total sales for the past five months and the
denominator of which is the aggregate outstanding balance of Eligible
Receivables as of the end of the most recently ended month times (iv) a fraction
the numerator of which is 15 if the Weighted Average Term is less than 40 days,
16 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 40 days but less
than 50 days, 17 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 50
days but less than 60 days, 18 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or
equal to 60 days but less than 70 days, or 19 if the Weighted Average Term is
greater than or equal to 70 days and the denominator of which is 15.



                                        7
<PAGE>   11
         "Class B Extended Warranty Factor" shall mean fifty percent of the
product of (a) the average monthly sales of the Originators for the preceding
nineteen months and (b) the six-month rolling average of the ratio of (i)
extended parts contract revenues for Dell USA Corporation for the preceding
month to (ii) sales for Dell USA Corporation for the preceding month and (c)
eighteen.

         "Class B Invested Amount" shall mean, when used with respect to any
date, an amount equal to (a) $0 plus (b) the aggregate amount of Increases made
under any Class B Certificate after the Closing Date minus (c) the aggregate
amount of Series 1995-1 Investor Collections received and distributed to Class B
Certificateholders in reduction of the Class B Invested Amount from time to time
on or prior to such date; provided, however, that the "Class B Invested Amount"
shall not be reduced by any amount of Series 1995-1 Investor Collections so
received and distributed if at any time such distribution of such amount of
Series 1995-1 Investor Collections is rescinded or must otherwise be returned
for any reason; and provided, further, that, on any date of determination, the
Class B Invested Amount shall not exceed the Class B Purchase Limit.

         "Class B Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage" shall mean, as of any
date, the greater of (a) the Class B Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve
Percentage and (b) the Class B Dynamic Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage.

         "Class B Purchase Limit" shall mean $0 or such lesser amount as may be
mutually agreed upon by the Program Agent and the Transferor pursuant to the
Certificate Purchase Agreement.

         "Class B Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage" shall mean the
sum of (a) 12% and (b) the sum of (A) the product of (i) 2.5 times (ii) the
average Dilution Ratio during the preceding 12 months times (iii) a fraction the
numerator of which is the total sales for the past one and one-half months and
the denominator of which is the aggregate outstanding balance of Eligible
Receivables as of the end of the most recently ended month times (iv) a fraction
the numerator of which is 7 if the Weighted Average Term is less than 40 days, 8
if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 40 days but less than
50 days, 9 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to 50 days but
less than 60 days, 10 if the Weighted Average Term is greater than or equal to
60 days but less than 70 days, or 11 if the Weighted Average Term is greater
than or equal to 70 days and the denominator of which is 7, plus (B) the sum of
(x) the product of the Dilution Volatility Factor times the fraction specified
in clause (b)(a)(iii) above, (y) the Class B Accrued Warranty Reserve Factor and
(z) the Class B Extended Warranty Reserve Factor; provided that the Transferor
may reduce the Class B Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage if the
Rating Agency Condition is satisfied and with the consent of a Majority in
Interest of the Holders of Class B Certificates of each outstanding Series.



                                        8
<PAGE>   12
         "Closing Date" shall mean the first date on which any Class A or Class
B Certificates are issued.

         "Collection Period" shall mean, with respect to any Distribution Date,
the calendar month (or, in the case of the calendar month in which the Closing
Date occurs, the portion of such calendar month following the Closing Date)
immediately preceding the calendar month in which such Distribution Date occurs.

         "Concentration Limit" shall mean, with respect to the following types
of Receivables and the Class A Certificates, the percentages of the aggregate
amount of Eligible Receivables owned by the Trust set forth as follows: (a)
Receivables of any single Obligor rated at least "A-1+" or its equivalent by S&P
and DCR, 10%; (b) Receivables of any single Obligor rated at least "A-1" or its
equivalent by S&P and DCR, 7%; (c) Receivables of any single Obligor rated below
"A-1", but at least "A-2" or its equivalent by S&P and DCR, 5.5%; (d)
Receivables of any single Obligor rated below "A-2" but at least "A-3" or its
equivalent by S&P and DCR, 4%; (e) Receivables of any other single Obligor which
is not rated by S&P or DCR, whose short term debt is not rated by S&P or DCR, or
whose short term debt is rated below investment grade by S&P or DCR, 3%; and (f)
in addition to the limits in clauses (a)-(e), Receivables of Obligors which are
non-Controlled Affiliates of Dell USA L.P. or the Transferor, 15%; provided,
however, that the Transferor may adjust the level of any Concentration Limit if
such adjustment in and of itself does not violate the Rating Agency Condition.

         "CP Note" shall mean any commercial paper note issued by CRC.

         "CP Rate" shall mean, with respect to CRC for each Collection Period,
the per annum rate equivalent to the weighted average of the per annum rates
paid or payable by CRC from time to time as interest on or otherwise with
respect to those CP Notes issued by CRC that are allocated, in whole or in part,
by CRC to fund the purchase or maintenance of the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount
during such Collection Period, as determined by CRC and reported to the
Transferor and the Servicer, which rates shall reflect and give effect to the
commissions of placement agents and dealers with respect to such CP Notes;
provided, however, that if any component of such rate is a discount rate, in
calculating the "CP Rate" for such Collection Period, CRC shall for such
component use the rate resulting from converting such discount rate to an
interest-bearing equivalent rate per annum.

         "CRC" shall mean Corporate Receivables Corporation, a corporation
organized and existing under the laws of the State of California, and any
successor or assign of CRC that is an Eligible Assignee and that is a
receivables investment company which in the ordinary course of its business
issues commercial paper or other securities to fund its acquisition and
maintenance of receivables.



                                        9
<PAGE>   13
         "Cure Account" shall have the meaning specified in Section 4.01(c).

         "Daily Report" shall mean an Officer's Certificate of the Servicer
substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto.

         "Determination Date Certificate" shall mean, with respect to each
month, the certificate prepared by the Servicer, substantially in the form of
Exhibit C hereto.

         "Early Amortization Event" shall mean any Trust Early Amortization
Event specified in Section 9.01 of the Agreement, together with any Series
1995-1 Early Amortization Event specified in Section 6.01 of this Series
Supplement.

         "Eligible Assignee" shall mean a Person which (i) is a
bankruptcy-remote receivables investment company which customarily issues
commercial paper to fund its acquisition and maintenance of receivables or a
bank, insurance company or other financial institution, and (ii) has a
short-term debt rating or short-term certificate of deposit rating of at least
"A-1" from S&P or at least "P-1" from Moody's, or, if such Person does not have
a short-term debt rating or short-term certificate of deposit rating, a
long-term senior debt rating of at least "A" from S&P or "A2" from Moody's;
provided that if such Person is an insurance, bonding or surety company which
does not have a certificate of deposit rating or a debt rating, such Person has
a claims paying rating or a surety rating of at least "A" from S&P or "A2" from
Moody's; provided, further, in any case, if such Person is rated by both S&P and
Moody's, it must have the prescribed minimum ratings from both S&P and Moody's.

         "Facility Fee" shall have the meaning specified in the Fee Letter.

         "Fee Letter" shall mean that certain fee letter dated the date of the
Certificate Purchase Agreement between the Transferor and the Program Agent, as
may be amended or modified from time to time in accordance with the terms
thereof.

         "Increase" shall mean the amount of each increase in the Class A
Invested Amount or the Class B Invested Amount funded by CP Notes or the
Liquidity Providers and paid to the Transferor by the Program Agent pursuant to
the terms of the Certificate Purchase Agreement.

         "Liquidity Providers" shall mean any liquidity providers specified in
the Certificate Purchase Agreement and any of their successors and assigns that
are Eligible Assignees.

         "Monthly Trust Expense Amount" shall mean, with respect to any
Collection Period, the sum of (a) the product of the Series Allocation
Percentage for Series 1995-1 times $2,500 (or, if an Early Amortization Event
has occurred and is continuing, $5,000),



                                       10
<PAGE>   14
plus (b) the Series Trustee's Fee, plus (c) the Series Servicing Fee, plus (d)
Service Transfer expenses, if any, incurred during such Collection Period.

         "Other Fees" shall have the meaning specified in the Fee Letter.

         "Program Agent" shall mean Citicorp North America, Inc., in its
capacity as agent for CRC.

         "Program Fee" shall have the meaning specified in the Fee Letter.

         "Purchaser Fees" shall mean the Program Fee, the Facility Fee and Other
Fees.

         "Rating Agency" shall mean S&P and DCR or, in the event that Moody's
provides a rating with respect to any Class of the Series 1995-1 Certificates,
S&P, DCR and Moody's, and "highest investment category" shall mean AAA and/or
Aaa, as applicable.

         "Reference Bank" shall mean, for purposes of determining the Alternate
Base Rate, the Class A Certificate Rate and the Class B Certificate Rate,
Citibank, N.A., a national banking association or its successors and assigns.

         "Revolving Period" shall mean the period beginning on the Closing Date
and terminating on the earliest of (a) the close of business on the Business Day
immediately preceding the Amortization Date and (b) the close of business on the
day on which any Early Amortization Event shall occur.

         "Series 1995-1" shall mean the Series of Investor Certificates, the
terms of which are specified in this Series Supplement.

         "Series 1995-1 Accounts" shall have the meaning specified in Section
4.01(d).

         "Series 1995-1 Certificate" shall mean any one of the Series 1995-1
Certificates executed by the Transferor and authenticated by the Trustee,
substantially in the forms attached as Exhibit A and Exhibit B.

         "Series 1995-1 Certificateholders" shall mean the Holders of either
Class of Series 1995-1 Certificates.

         "Series 1995-1 Certificateholders' Interest" shall mean that portion of
the Certificateholders' Interest evidenced by the Series 1995-1 Certificates.

         "Series 1995-1 Discount Amount" shall mean, with respect to any
Collection Period, an amount equal to the sum of (i) the product of (a) (1) the
CP Rate at the end of the previous



                                       11
<PAGE>   15
Collection Period times (2) the number of days in such Collection Period divided
by (3) 360 and (b) 1.3 and (c) the largest Series 1995-1 Invested Amount on any
day of such Collection Period; plus (ii) the Monthly Trust Expense Amount for
the preceding Collection Period; plus (iii) the product of (1) the per annum
rate used to determine the Purchaser Fees and (2) the number of days in such
Collection Period divided by 360 and (3) the largest Series 1995-1 Purchase
Limit on any day of such Collection Period.

         "Series 1995-1 Early Amortization Event" shall have the meaning
specified in Section 6.01.

         "Series 1995-1 Floating Allocation Percentage" shall mean the fraction
that determines the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders' Interest during the
Revolving Period, a Partial Amortization Period a Cure Period, the Amortization
Period or an Early Amortization Period, the numerator of which is the sum of (a)
the Class A Invested Amount (computed as if reduced by (A) the amount of Cure
Funds held in the Cure Account at such time and (B) the cumulative amount of
funds held at such time in the Concentration Account allocated to the Series
1995-1 Partial Amortization Amount) plus (b) the Series 1995-1 Yield/Fee Reserve
plus (c) the Series 1995-1 Loss and Dilution Reserve, and the denominator of
which is the Net Receivables Balance. The Series 1995-1 Floating Allocation
Percentage is calculated on each Business Day during the Revolving Period and,
during the Amortization Period, an Early Amortization Period, a Partial
Amortization Period or a Cure Period, remains fixed at the percentage calculated
at the close of business on the last Business Day prior to the Amortization
Period or such Early Amortization Period, Partial Amortization Period or Cure
Period.

         "Series 1995-1 Invested Amount" shall mean the sum of the Class A
Invested Amount and the Class B Invested Amount.

         "Series 1995-1 Investor Collections" shall mean, as of any date, that
portion of the Collections deposited to the Concentration Account on such date
equal to the product of (A) the Series 1995-1 Floating Allocation Percentage on
such date and (B) the aggregate amount of such Collections.

         "Series 1995-1 Loss and Dilution Reserve" or "LDR" shall mean, as of
any date, an amount equal to the greater of:

(i)           LDR   =   IA + YR   x  LDRP
                        --------
                        1 - LDRP

     IA   =   Class A Invested Amount (computed as if reduced by the amount of
              Cure Funds held in the Cure Account at such time and the
              cumulative amount of funds held in the Concentration Account at
              such time allocated to the Series 1995-1 Partial Amortization
              Amount)

     YR   =   Series 1995-1 Yield/Fee Reserve



                                       12
<PAGE>   16
     LDRP =   Class A Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage

and

(ii) the sum of

(a)           LDR  =   IA + YR   x LDRP
                       --------
                       1 - LDRP

     IA   =   sum of Class A Invested Amount and Class B Invested Amount
              (computed as if reduced by the amount of Cure Funds held in the
              Cure Account at such time and the cumulative amount of funds held
              in the Concentration Account at such time allocated to the Series
              1995-1 Partial Amortization Amount)

     YR   =   Series 1995-1 Yield/Fee Reserve

     LDRP =   Class B Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage

and (b) the Class B Invested Amount.

         "Series 1995-1 Partial Amortization Amount" shall mean the product of
(i) the Series Allocation Percentage for Series 1995-1 times (ii) the Trust
Partial Amortization Amount.

         "Series 1995-1 Purchase Limit" shall mean the sum of the Class A
Purchase Limit and the Class B Purchase Limit.

         "Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account" shall have the meaning specified in
Section 4.01(a).

         "Series 1995-1 Yield/Fee Reserve" shall mean, as of any date, the
product of (a) two times the Turnover Rate for such date multiplied by (b) the
Series 1995-1 Discount Amount with respect to the Collection Period in which
such date occurs; provided that for the purpose of calculating the Series 1995-1
Yield/Fee Reserve, the Series 1995-1 Discount Amount shall be deemed to include
(a) Trustee's expenses equal to the product of the Series Allocation Percentage
for Series 1995-1 times $2,500 (or, if an Early Amortization Event has occurred
and is continuing, $5,000) and (b) the Series Servicing Fee calculated on the
basis of a rate of 3.00% per annum and (c) one month's interest on the Series
1995-1 Invested Amount on such date of determination calculated at a rate equal
to the Alternate Base Rate plus 2% per annum.

         "Series Servicing Fee" shall have the meaning specified in Section
3.01.

         "Series Trustee's Fee" shall mean the product of (a) the Trustee's Fee
and (b) the Series Allocation Percentage.

         "Termination Date" shall mean the date of payment in full to all of the
Series 1995-1 Certificateholders of the Series 1995-1



                                       13
<PAGE>   17
Invested Amount, all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and any other amounts
due the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders under the Transaction Documents,
payment in full to the Servicer of the Series Servicing Fee, and payment in full
to the Trustee of the Series Trustee's Fee and all expenses of the Trustee as
contemplated by Section 11.05(b) of the Agreement.

         "Undivided Fractional Interest" shall mean the undivided fractional
interest in the Class A or Class B Invested Amount, as applicable, evidenced by
a Class A or Class B Certificate, the numerator being the principal amount of
such Class A or Class B Certificate at the time of determination and the
denominator being the Class A or Class B Invested Amount at such time.

         (b) All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement. Each capitalized term
defined herein shall relate only to the Series 1995-1 Certificates and not to
any other Series of Certificates issued by the Trust.

         (c) The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar
import when used in this Series Supplement shall refer to this Series Supplement
as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Series Supplement;
references to any Article, Section, Schedule or Exhibit are references to
Articles, Sections, Schedules and Exhibits in or to this Series Supplement
unless otherwise specified; and the term "including" means "including without
limitation".



                                       14
<PAGE>   18
                                   ARTICLE II

                              Additional Covenants

         SECTION 2.01. Covenants of the Servicer. The Servicer hereby covenants
that, until the termination of the Amortization Period:

         (a) The Servicer will furnish to the Program Agent, promptly after
delivery to the Trustee and each Rating Agency, all notices, reports and other
information given to the Trustee and each Rating Agency under the Agreement
other than the Daily Reports required thereunder.

         (b) At any time and from time to time during the Servicer's regular
business hours and at the Transferor's expense, on reasonable prior notice and
for a purpose reasonably related to the Agreement, the Servicer shall, in
response to any reasonable request of the Trustee or the Program Agent, permit
the Trustee or the Program Agent, or their agents or representatives, (i) to
examine and make copies of and abstracts from all books, records and documents
(including, without limitation, computer tapes, microfiche and disks) in the
possession or under the control of the Servicer relating to the Trust Assets,
the Receivables and the related Contracts and (ii) to visit the offices and
properties of the Servicer for the purpose of examining such materials and to
discuss matters relating to the Receivables or the Servicer's performance
hereunder with any of the officers or (after consultation with a Responsible
Officer) employees of the Servicer having knowledge thereof; provided, however,
that, so long as no Early Amortization Event, Partial Amortization Period or
Cure Period shall have occurred and be continuing, the Trustee and the Program
Agent shall use their best efforts to coordinate the exercise of their rights
under this Section 2.01(b) with the exercise of like rights of the Transferor,
and the rights of the Trustee and the Program Agent under this Section 2.01(b)
shall be at the Transferor's expense only twice in any twelve-month period. The
Servicer agrees that the Program Agent will have the right to require changes in
the Semi-Annual Servicing Report furnished by the Independent Public Accountants
pursuant to Section 3.07 of the Agreement which are reasonably related to the
Trust Assets and the matters contemplated by the Transaction Documents.

         SECTION 2.02. Confidentiality. The Trustee, the Program Agent and the
Series 1995-1 Certificateholders agree to use their best efforts, and shall
cause their agents or representatives to use their best efforts, to hold in
confidence all Confidential Information; provided that nothing herein shall
prevent any Series 1995-1 Certificateholder from delivering copies of any
financial statements and other documents constituting Confidential Information,
or disclosing any other Confidential Information, to (i) such Series 1995-1
Certificateholder's directors, officers, employees, agents and professional
consultants, (ii) any other Series 1995-1 Certificateholder, (iii) any Liquidity
Provider,



                                       15
<PAGE>   19
Enhancement Provider or any Person to which such Series 1995-1 Certificateholder
offers to sell or assign or sells or assigns such Series 1995-1 Certificate or
any part thereof or any rights associated therewith, provided that such
Liquidity Provider, Enhancement Provider or Person shall have agreed to hold in
confidence all Confidential Information, (iv) any federal or state regulatory
authority having jurisdiction over such Series 1995-1 Certificateholder, (v) the
National Association of Insurance Commissioners or any similar organization or
(vi) any other Person to which such delivery or disclosure may be necessary or
appropriate (a) in compliance with any law, rule, regulation or order applicable
to such Series 1995-1 Certificateholder, (b) in response to any subpoena or
other legal process or (c) in connection with any litigation to which such
Series 1995-1 Certificateholder is a party. The Trustee, the Program Agent and
the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders agree to allow the Transferor to inspect
their security and confidentiality arrangements from time to time during normal
business hours. The Trustee, the Program Agent and the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders shall provide written notice to the Transferor whenever any
such disclosure is made. The Trustee, the Program Agent and the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders shall use their best efforts to provide the Transferor with
five day's advance notice of any disclosure pursuant to clause (vi) of this
Section 2.02.



                                       16
<PAGE>   20
                                   ARTICLE III

                                  Servicing Fee

         SECTION 3.01. Servicing Compensation.

         The portion of the Servicing Fee allocable to the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders with respect to any Distribution Date (the "Series Servicing
Fee") shall be equal to one-twelfth of the product of (a) 1.00% and (b) the
average of the Series 1995-1 Invested Amounts on each day of the immediately
preceding Collection Period; provided, however, that if the Servicer is not Dell
USA L.P. or an Affiliate of Dell USA L.P., the Series Servicing Fee may be a
higher fee as shall be agreed to by the Trustee in its sole discretion, but in
no event in excess of a per annum fee equal to the product of 3.00% and the
Series 1995-1 Invested Amount.



                                       17
<PAGE>   21
                                   ARTICLE IV

                 Rights of Series 1995-1 Certificateholders and
                    Allocation and Application of Collections

         SECTION 4.01. Establishment of Series Accounts. (a) The Servicer, for
the benefit of the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders, shall establish and
maintain in the name of the Trustee, on behalf of the Trust, with an Eligible
Institution a segregated trust account accessible only by the Trustee (the
"Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account"), which shall be identified as the "Series
1995-1 Trustee's Account for the Dell Trade Receivables Master Trust, Series
1995-1" and shall bear a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited
therein are held for the benefit of the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders. The
Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account initially shall be established at Norwest Bank
Minnesota, National Association.

         (b) The Program Agent, for the benefit of CRC (for so long as CRC is
the Holder of either all of the Class A Certificates or all of the Class B
Certificates), shall establish and maintain in its own name, on behalf of CRC
and the Liquidity Providers, with an Eligible Institution a segregated account
accessible only by the Program Agent (the "Program Agent's Account"), which
shall be identified as the "Program Agent's Account for the Dell Trade
Receivables Master Trust, Series 1995-1" and shall bear a designation clearly
indicating that the funds deposited therein are held for the benefit of CRC, as
Holder of Series 1995-1 Certificates. The Program Agent's Account initially
shall be established at Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association.

         (c) (i) The Servicer, for the benefit of the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders, shall establish and maintain in the name of the Trustee, on
behalf of the Trust, with an Eligible Institution a segregated trust account
accessible only by the Trustee (the "Cure Account"), which shall be identified
as the "Cure Account for the Dell Trade Receivables Master Trust, Series 1995-1"
and shall bear a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein
are held for the benefit of the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders.

         (ii) At the direction of the Servicer (which may be a standing
direction), funds on deposit in the Cure Account shall be invested by the
Trustee in Eligible Investments selected by the Servicer. All such Eligible
Investments shall be held by the Trustee for the benefit of the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders. On each Distribution Date, all interest and other investment
earnings (net of losses and investment expenses) on funds on deposit in the Cure
Account shall be applied as set forth in Section 4.02. Funds on deposit in the
Cure Account shall be invested at the written direction of the Servicer in
Eligible Investments that will mature so that such funds will be available on or
before the close of business on the Business Day next preceding the following
Distribution Date. Funds deposited in the



                                       18
<PAGE>   22
Cure Account on a Business Day which immediately precedes a Distribution Date
upon the maturity of any Eligible Investments are not required to be invested
overnight.

         (d) (i) The Trustee shall possess all right, title and interest in and
to all funds on deposit from time to time in, and all Eligible Investments
credited to, the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account and the Cure Account
(collectively, the "Series 1995-1 Accounts") and in all proceeds thereof. The
Series 1995-1 Accounts shall be under the sole dominion and control of the
Trustee for the benefit of the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders. If, at any
time, any of the Series 1995-1 Accounts are held by an institution other than an
Eligible Institution, the Trustee (or the Servicer, at the direction of the
Trustee and on its behalf) shall within 10 Business Days establish a new Series
1995-1 Account meeting the conditions specified in paragraph (a) or (c)(i)
above, as applicable, and shall transfer any cash and/or any investments to such
new Series 1995-1 Account. Neither the Transferor, the Servicer nor any Person
or entity claiming by, through or under the Transferor, the Servicer or any such
Person or entity shall have any right, title or interest in, or any right to
withdraw any amount from, any Series 1995-1 Account, except as expressly
provided herein. Schedule I identifies each Series 1995-1 Account and the
Program Agent's Account by setting forth the account number of each such
account, the account designation of each such account and the name and location
of the institution with which such account has been established. If a substitute
Series 1995-1 Account or Program Agent's Account is established pursuant to this
Section 4.01, the party establishing such substitute Series 1995-1 Account shall
promptly provide to the Servicer or the Trustee, as applicable, an amended
Schedule I, setting forth the relevant information for such substitute Series
1995-1 Account.

         (ii) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Servicer
shall have the power, revocable by the Trustee at the direction of a Majority in
Interest of Series 1995-1 Certificateholders, to instruct the Trustee to make
withdrawals and payments from the Series 1995-1 Accounts for the purposes of
carrying out the Servicer's or Trustee's duties hereunder.

         (e) Any request by the Servicer to invest funds on deposit in any
Series 1995-1 Account shall be in writing, or by telephone, confirmed promptly
in writing, and shall certify that the requested investment is an Eligible
Investment which matures at or prior to the time required hereby.

         (f) The Trustee is hereby authorized, unless otherwise directed by the
Servicer, to effect transactions in Eligible Investments through a capital
markets affiliate of the Trustee.

         SECTION 4.02. Settlement Procedures. (a) On each Deposit Date during
each Collection Period during the Revolving Period, unless a Partial
Amortization Period or a Cure Period shall have occurred and be continuing, the
Servicer shall instruct the



                                       19
<PAGE>   23
Trustee by a Daily Report delivered to the Trustee by 12:00 noon (New York City
time) to, and the Trustee shall, at such time and in the following order:

         (i)   allocate Collections received since receipt of the last such 
     Daily Report and held in the Concentration Account on such day, based on
     the Series 1995-1 Floating Allocation Percentage on such day and the Daily
     Report, either as Series 1995-1 Investor Collections, Collections allocable
     to another Series or Transferor Collections;

         (ii)  out of such Series 1995-1 Investor Collections, allocate to, and
     hold in the Concentration Account, in trust for the Series 1995-1
     Certificateholders, the Trustee and the Servicer, an amount equal to the
     Series 1995-1 Discount Amount for such Collection Period to the extent such
     amount has not been previously so allocated by the Servicer;

         (iii) deposit the remainder of such Series 1995-1 Investor Collections
     to the Transferor's Account to be invested by the Transferor in
     Receivables; provided that if immediately following any such deposit such
     Deposit Date would be a Pool Non-compliance Date, the Trustee shall retain
     all such remaining Series 1995-1 Investor Collections in the Concentration
     Account to be applied pursuant to Section 4.02(b)(iii); and

         (iv)  deposit to the Transferor's Account the Transferor Collections;
     provided that if the Trust Invested Amount is zero, out of such Transferor
     Collections, allocate to, and hold in the Concentration Account, in trust
     for the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders, the Trustee and the Servicer, an
     amount equal to the Series 1995-1 Discount Amount for such Collection
     Period to the extent such amount has not been previously so allocated by
     the Servicer.

         To the extent that the Trust Invested Amount is zero, the Trustee shall
allocate any Collections received in any Collection Period after the Series
1995-1 Discount Amount with respect to such Collection Period has been allocated
in full to the Transferor Account whether or not the Servicer has delivered a
Daily Report to the Trustee.

         On the Business Day immediately prior to the Distribution Date with
respect to such Collection Period, the Servicer shall direct the Trustee to
deposit to the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account the amounts allocated and held in
trust as described in clause (ii) above; provided, however, that the Servicer
shall deposit to the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account that portion of the Series
1995-1 Discount Amount allocable to the Trustee's expenses only to the extent of
expenses actually incurred by the Trustee (as certified to the Servicer in
writing by the Trustee) during the Collection Period relating to such
Distribution Date or remaining unpaid with respect to any prior Collection
Period. The Daily



                                       20
<PAGE>   24
Report delivered by the Servicer to the Trustee on the first day of each
Collection Period shall set forth the Series 1995-1 Discount Amount for such
Collection Period.

         (b) On each Deposit Date during each Collection Period if and so long
as a Partial Amortization Period or a Cure Period shall have occurred and be
continuing, the Servicer shall instruct the Trustee by a Daily Report delivered
to the Trustee by 12:00 noon (New York City time) to, and the Trustee shall, at
that time and in the following order:

         (i)   allocate Collections received since receipt of the last such 
     Daily Report and held in the Concentration Account on such day, based on
     the Series 1995-1 Floating Allocation Percentage for such Partial
     Amortization Period or Cure Period and the Daily Report, either as Series
     1995-1 Investor Collections, Collections allocable to another Series or
     Transferor Collections;

         (ii)  out of such Series 1995-1 Investor Collections, allocate to, and
     hold in the Concentration Account, in trust for the Series 1995-1
     Certificateholders, the Trustee and the Servicer, an amount equal to the
     Series 1995-1 Discount Amount for such Collection Period to the extent such
     amount has not been previously so allocated by the Servicer;

         (iii) (A) in the case of a Partial Amortization Period, set aside and
     hold in the Concentration Account, in trust for the Series 1995-1
     Certificateholders, the Trustee and the Servicer, such Series 1995-1
     Investor Collections until the amount so held equals the Series 1995-1
     Partial Amortization Amount and (B) in the case of a Cure Period, deposit
     such Series 1995-1 Investor Collections to the Cure Account in an amount
     sufficient (together with the amounts on deposit in the Cure Accounts of
     all outstanding Series) to make the Net Receivables Balance equal or exceed
     the Required Net Receivables Balance;

         (iv)  deposit the remainder of such Series 1995-1 Investor Collections
     to the Transferor's Account to be invested by the Transferor in
     Receivables; provided that if immediately following any such deposit such
     Deposit Date would be a Pool Non-compliance Date, the Trustee shall retain
     all such remaining Series 1995-1 Investor Collections in the Concentration
     Account to be applied pursuant to Section 4.02(b)(iii);

         (v)   deposit to the Transferor's Account the Transferor Collections.

         On the Business Day immediately following the day on which any Partial
Amortization Period ends, the Servicer shall deposit to the Series 1995-1
Trustee's Account all amounts set aside as described in clause (iii) of this
Section 4.02(b).


                                       21
<PAGE>   25
         On the Business Day immediately prior to any Distribution Date during a
Partial Amortization Period or Cure Period, the Servicer shall deposit to the
Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account the amounts allocated and held in trust as
described in clause (ii)(A) of this Section 4.02(b); provided, however, that the
Servicer shall deposit to the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account that portion of
the Series 1995-1 Discount Amount allocable to the Trustee's expenses only to
the extent of expenses actually incurred by the Trustee (as certified to the
Servicer in writing by the Trustee) during the Collection Period relating to
such Distribution Date or remaining unpaid with respect to any prior Collection
Period.

         All funds held in the Concentration Account during a Partial
Amortization Period as all or a portion of the Series 1995- 1 Partial
Amortization Amount shall remain in the Concentration Account, without
reduction, until such funds are distributed to the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders as provided in Section 5.01(c).

         (c) On each Deposit Date during each Collection Period during an Early
Amortization Period or the Amortization Period, the Servicer shall instruct the
Trustee by a Daily Report delivered to the Trustee by 12:00 noon (New York City
time) to, and the Trustee shall, at that time and in the following order:

         (i)   allocate Collections received since receipt of the last such 
     Daily Report and held in the Concentration Account, based on the Series
     1995-1 Floating Allocation Percentage for such Early Amortization Period or
     the Amortization Period and the Daily Report, either as Series 1995-1
     Investor Collections, Collections allocable to another Series or as
     Transferor Collections;

         (ii)  set aside and hold in the Concentration Account, in trust for the
     Series 1995-1 Certificateholders, the Trustee and the Servicer, such Series
     1995-1 Investor Collections; and

         (iii) deposit to the Transferor's Account the Transferor Collections.

         On the Business Day immediately prior to the Distribution Date with
respect to a Collection Period, the Trustee shall deposit to the Series 1995-1
Trustee's Account (A) all amounts set aside as described in clause (ii) of this
Section 4.02(c), (B) the amount of Cure Funds on deposit in the Cure Account and
(C) the amount of funds held in the Concentration Account representing all or a
portion of the Series 1995-1 Partial Amortization Amount.

         (d) On the Business Day prior to any Distribution Date during an Early
Amortization Period or the Amortization Period, the Transferor may deposit to
the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account its own funds in an amount sufficient, when
added to the amounts deposited to the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account pursuant
to Section 4.02(c), to reduce the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount and to pay the
Class A Debt Service Amount, if any, the Class B Debt



                                       22
<PAGE>   26
Service Amount, if any, any Breakage Costs and any other amounts due the Series
1995-1 Certificateholders under the Transaction Documents. Upon the termination
of such Early Amortization Period or the Amortization Period, the Servicer shall
instruct the Trustee to, and the Trustee shall, withdraw from the Cure Account
all remaining Cure Funds on deposit therein and deposit such funds to the Series
1995-1 Trustee's Account for use by the Trustee in making the distribution
required under the last paragraph of Section 5.01(d).

         (e) On any Business Day during the Revolving Period, unless a Partial
Amortization Period or a Cure Period shall have occurred and be continuing, the
Transferor may (i) instruct the Servicer to direct the Trustee (as set forth in
the Daily Report) to deposit to the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account all or a
portion of (A) the Collections otherwise to be deposited into the Transferor's
Account pursuant to Sections 4.02(a)(iii) and (iv) and (B) the Series 1995-1
Discount Amount held in the Concentration Account pursuant to Section
4.02(a)(ii), and (ii) deposit to the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account its own
funds, in each case for distribution on the next Business Day pursuant to
Section 5.01(c) to the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders in reduction of the
Class A Invested Amount and the payment of the Class A Debt Service Amount, if
any, or in reduction of the Class B Invested Amount and the payment of the Class
B Debt Service Amount, if any, any Breakage Costs and any other amounts due the
Class 1995-1 Certificateholders under the Transaction Documents.

         (f) On any Business Day during the Revolving Period, the Transferor may
instruct the Trustee by an Officer's Certificate (which may be a standing
instruction) delivered to the Trustee by 12:00 noon (New York City time) to, and
the Trustee shall, deposit to the Transferor's Account Cure Funds, if any, held
in the Cure Account; provided that the Transferor shall have delivered to the
Trustee at the time of such request an Officer's Certificate (in substantially
the form of Exhibit E hereto) stating that, after taking account of the
requested withdrawal, the Net Receivables Balance on such day is equal to or
greater than the Required Net Receivables Balance and setting forth the
calculation supporting such statement.



                                       23
<PAGE>   27
                                    ARTICLE V

                          Distributions and Reports to
                        Series 1995-1 Certificateholders

         SECTION 5.01. Distributions. (a) During the Revolving Period, on the
Distribution Date with respect to each Collection Period, the Trustee shall
distribute the funds on deposit in the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account on such
Distribution Date, in the following order of priority, in accordance with the
Servicer's Determination Date Certificate:

         (i)   to the Trustee as the accrued and unpaid Series Trustee's Fee and
     expenses of the Trustee, not in excess of the product of (A) $2,500 (or, if
     an Early Amortization Event has occurred and is continuing, $5,000) and (B)
     the Series Allocation Percentage for Series 1995-1;

         (ii)  to the Servicer (if the Servicer is other than Dell USA L.P.) as
     the accrued and unpaid Series Servicing Fee and any Service Transfer
     expenses incurred by a Successor Servicer which have not been paid by Dell
     USA L.P.;

         (iii) unless otherwise instructed by the Program Agent, to the Program
     Agent's Account:

               (A) for payment of the Purchaser Fees and any other amounts due
         under the Fee Letter other than Breakage Costs;

               (B) for distribution to the Class A Certificateholders, ratably
         in accordance with their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, of
         the Class A Debt Service Amount;

               (C) for distribution to the Class B Certificateholders, ratably
         in accordance with their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, of
         the Class B Debt Service Amount; and

               (D) for payment of Breakage Costs;

         (iv)  to the Trustee as Trustee's expenses in excess of the product of
     (A) $2,500 (or, if an Early Amortization Event has occurred and is
     continuing, $5,000) and (B) the Series Allocation Percentage for Series
     1995-1;

         (v)   to the Servicer (if the Servicer is Dell USA L.P.) as the accrued
     and unpaid Series Servicing Fee;

         (vi)  to amounts required to be allocated to the Series 1995-1 Discount
     Amount for the immediately succeeding Distribution Date; and



                                       24
<PAGE>   28
         (vii) after the payment in full of the amounts specified in clauses (i)
     through (vi) above, to the Transferor.

         (b) On each Distribution Date during an Early Amortization Period or
the Amortization Period, the Trustee shall distribute the funds on deposit in
the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account on such Distribution Date, in the following
order of priority, in accordance with the Servicer's Determination Date
Certificate:

         (i)   to the Trustee as the accrued and unpaid Series Trustee's Fee and
     expenses of the Trustee, not in excess of the product of (A) $2,500 (or, if
     an Early Amortization Event has occurred and is continuing, $5,000) and (B)
     the Series Allocation Percentage for Series 1995-1;

         (ii)  to the Servicer (if the Servicer is other than Dell USA L.P.) as
     the accrued and unpaid Series Servicing Fee and, if a default in payment to
     the Certificateholders shall have occurred, Service Transfer expenses
     incurred by a Successor Servicer which have not been paid by the initial
     Servicer;

         (iii) unless otherwise instructed by the Program Agent, to the Program
     Agent's Account:

               (A) for payment of the Purchaser Fees and any other amounts due
         under the Fee Letter other than Breakage Costs;

               (B) for distribution to the Class A Certificateholders, ratably
         in accordance with their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, of
         the Class A Debt Service Amount and any accrued and unpaid Class A Debt
         Service Amount;

               (C) for distribution to the Class B Certificateholders, ratably
         in accordance with their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, of
         the Class B Debt Service Amount and any accrued and unpaid Class B Debt
         Service Amount; and

               (D) for payment of Breakage Costs;

         (iv)  to the Class A Certificateholders, ratably in accordance with
     their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, in reduction of the Class
     A Invested Amount until the Class A Invested Amount is reduced to zero, and
     any other amounts due the Class A Certificateholders under the Transaction
     Documents;

         (v)   to the Class B Certificateholders, ratably in accordance with 
     their respective Undivided Fractional Interests, in reduction of the Class
     B Invested Amount until the Class B Invested Amount is reduced to zero, and
     any other


                                       25
<PAGE>   29
     amounts due the Class B Certificateholders under the Transaction Documents;

         (vi)   to the Certificateholders of any other Series which is in an 
     Early Amortization Period, Partial Amortization Period or Amortization
     Period on such Distribution Date;

         (vii)  to the Trustee as Trustee's expenses in excess of the product of
     (A) $2,500 (or, if an Early Amortization Event has occurred and is
     continuing, $5,000) and (B) the Series Allocation Percentage for Series
     1995-1;

         (viii) to the Servicer (if the Servicer is Dell USA L.P.) as the
     accrued and unpaid Series Servicing Fee for such Collection Period; and

         (ix)   after the payment in full of the amounts specified in clauses 
    (i) through (viii) above, to the Transferor.

         (c)    In accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02(e), the 
Trustee shall distribute the funds on deposit in the Series 1995-1 Trustee's
Account to the Program Agent's Account, unless otherwise instructed by the
Program Agent, in reduction of the Class A Invested Amount and payment of the
Class A Debt Service Amount, if any, or in reduction of the Class B Invested
Amount and payment of the Class B Debt Service Amount, if any, any Breakage
Costs and all other amounts due the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders under the
Transaction Documents

         (d)    In accordance with the provisions of the last paragraph in
Section 4.02(b), the Trustee shall distribute the amount of funds representing
the Trust Partial Amortization Amount that have been deposited to the Series
1995-1 Trustee's Account to the Program Agent's Account, unless otherwise
instructed by the Program Agent.

         Upon payment in full to all of the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders of
the Series 1995-1 Invested Amount, all accrued and unpaid interest thereon and
all other amounts due the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders under the Transaction
Documents, payment in full to the Servicer of the Series Servicing Fee, and
payment in full to the Trustee of the Series Trustee's Fee and all expenses of
the Trustee as contemplated by Section 11.05(b) of the Agreement, and provided
that no amounts are then due and unpaid to the Holders of any other outstanding
Series, all amounts remaining on deposit in the Series 1995-1 Trustee's Account
shall be distributed by the Trustee to the Holder of the Transferor Certificate,
and all amounts, if any, remaining in the Dell Collection Accounts, the
Concentration Account and the Cure Account shall be distributed by the Trustee
to the Holder of the Transferor Certificate; provided, however, that if at any
time after the payment that would have otherwise resulted in such payment in
full, such payment is rescinded or must otherwise be returned for any reason,
effective upon such rescission or return such payment in



                                       26
<PAGE>   30
full shall automatically be deemed, as between the Series 1995-1
Certificate-holders and the Transferor, never to have occurred, and the
Transferor shall be required, to the extent it received any amounts under this
Section 5.01, to remit to the Trustee an amount equal to the rescinded or
returned payment.

         (e) Except as provided in Section 12.02 of the Agreement with respect
to a final distribution, distributions to the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders
hereunder shall be made by wire transfer to the Program Agent's Account, unless
otherwise instructed by the Program Agent, at such account as may be designated
in writing, received by the Trustee on or prior to the relevant Record Date, by
each Certificateholder without presentation or surrender of any Certificate or
the making of any notation thereon. In the absence of such timely wire transfer
instructions, payment will be made by check to the addresses of record of the
Series 1995-1 Certificateholders.

         SECTION 5.02. Annual Certificateholders' Statement. On or before
January 31 of each calendar year, beginning with January 31, 1996, the Servicer
shall provide to the Trustee and the Trustee shall forward or cause to be
forwarded to each Person who at any time during the preceding calendar year was
a Certificateholder, a statement prepared by the Servicer containing the
information which is required to be contained in the Determination Date
Certificates provided to Certificateholders pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the
Agreement, aggregated for such calendar year or the applicable portion thereof
during which such Person was a Certificateholder, together with other
information as is required to be provided under the Internal Revenue Code and
such other customary information as is necessary to enable the
Certificateholders to prepare their tax returns. The obligation of the Servicer
to provide such other information and such other customary information shall be
deemed to have been satisfied to the extent that information substantially
comparable to such other information and such other customary information shall
be provided by the Trustee pursuant to any requirements of the Internal Revenue
Code as from time to time in effect.



                                       27
<PAGE>   31
                                   ARTICLE VI

                     Series 1995-1 Early Amortization Events

         SECTION 6.01. Series 1995-1 Early Amortization Events. If a Trust Early
Amortization Event or any one of the following events shall occur (each, an
"Early Amortization Event"):

         (a) the Default Ratio shall exceed 10%; or

         (b) the average of the Dilution Ratio for the three immediately
preceding Collection Periods shall exceed 13%; or

         (c) the average of the Loss to Liquidation Ratio for the six
immediately preceding Collection Periods shall exceed 2%;

then, either the Trustee or the Program Agent (unless otherwise directed by a
Majority in Interest of Series 1995-1 Certificateholders) or a Majority in
Interest of Series 1995-1 Certificateholders, by notice then given in writing to
the Transferor and the Servicer (and to the Trustee if given by such Series
1995-1 Certificateholders), may declare (provided that such Early Amortization
Event shall not have been remedied) that an Early Amortization Event has
occurred as of the date of such notice, and, in the case of any Early
Amortization Event, additional Receivables will not be transferred to the Trust.



                                       28
<PAGE>   32
                                   ARTICLE VII

                            Miscellaneous Provisions

         SECTION 7.01. Ratification of Agreement. As supplemented by this Series
Supplement, the Agreement is in all respects ratified and confirmed and the
Agreement as so supplemented by this Series Supplement shall be read, taken and
construed as one and the same instrument.

         SECTION 7.02. Counterparts. This Series Supplement may be executed in
two or more counterparts (and by different parties on separate counterparts),
each of which shall be an original but all of which together shall constitute
one and the same instrument.

         SECTION 7.03. Governing Law; Jurisdiction.

         (a) Governing Law. THIS SERIES SUPPLEMENT, INCLUDING THE RIGHTS AND
DUTIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ITS
CONFLICT OF LAW PROVISIONS, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE PERFECTION OF THE
INTERESTS OF THE TRUSTEE IN THE TRUST ASSETS IS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF A
JURISDICTION OTHER THAN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

         (b) Jurisdiction. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State
court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City,
and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising
out of or relating to this Series Supplement, and each of the parties hereto
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that all claims in respect of
any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State
or, to the extent permitted by law, such federal court and (ii) waives the
defense of an inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final
judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be
enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner
provided by law.

         (c) Consent to Service of Process. Each party to this Series Supplement
irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery, certified mail,
postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Series Supplement will
affect the right of any party to this Series Supplement to serve process in any
other manner permitted by law.

         (d) Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party to this Agreement waives any right
to a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to enforce or defend any rights
under or relating to this Agreement, any other Transaction Document, the Fee
Letter or any amendment, instrument, document or agreement delivered or which
may in the future be delivered in connection herewith or therewith or arising
from any course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether



                                       29
<PAGE>   33
verbal of written), actions of any of the parties hereto and the Liquidity
Providers or any other relationship existing in connection with this Agreement
of any other Transaction Document or the Fee Letter, and agrees that any such
action or proceeding shall be tried before a court and not before a jury.

         SECTION 7.04. Appointment of Successor Servicer. Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in Section 10.02 of the Agreement, the Trustee's
appointment of a Successor Servicer shall be subject to the consent of a
Majority in Interest of the Series 1995-1 Certificateholders.

         SECTION 7.05. The Trustee. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any
manner whatsoever for or with respect to the validity or sufficiency of this
Series Supplement, or for or with respect to the recitals contained herein, all
of which recitals are made solely by the Transferor and the Servicer.

         SECTION 7.06. Assignment by CRC and Liquidity Providers. (a) At any
time and from time to time, CRC may, by notice and delivery to the Program Agent
of a fully executed assignment and assumption agreement (in sufficient
counterparts for each party hereto), assign to any Person all or any portion of
its rights and obligations hereunder; provided that such Person is an Eligible
Assignee; provided, further, that the Program Agent shall have consulted with
the Transferor respecting any assignee prior to CRC's contacting such assignee;
and provided, further, that such assignment shall comply with any applicable
legal requirements including, without limitation, the Act. The Program Agent
shall, promptly upon its receipt of any such notice and assignment and
assumption agreement, notify the Transferor, the Servicer and the Trustee of
such assignment. The assignee shall, upon the effectiveness of such assignment
and assumption agreement and delivery thereof and of such other requested
documentation to the Program Agent, become entitled to the benefits hereof and
subject to the obligations of CRC hereunder.

         (b) At any time and from time to time, CRC may assign to any Liquidity
Provider, and any Liquidity Provider may assign to any other Liquidity Provider,
all or any portion of its Series 1995-1 Certificateholders' Interest or its
interest therein; provided that such assignee shall be an Eligible Assignee;
provided, further, that the Program Agent shall have consulted with the
Transferor respecting any assignee prior to CRC's or such Liquidity Provider's
contacting such assignee; and provided, further, that such assignment shall
comply with any applicable legal requirements including, without limitation, the
Act. Each such assignment shall be upon such terms and conditions as the
assignor and the assignee may mutually agree. CRC or the Liquidity Provider
making any such assignment shall provide notice to the Transferor and the
Servicer thereof.

         (c) The Program Agent agrees to cooperate with the Transferor and the
Servicer to effect any assignment under this



                                       30
<PAGE>   34
Section 7.06, and the Transferor and the Servicer agree to execute or obtain
such other documentation as may be reasonably requested by CRC or any Liquidity
Provider in order to effectuate any assignment under this Section 7.06, the
costs of such documentation to be borne by CRC or the Liquidity Provider, as
appropriate.

         SECTION 7.07. No Assignability by Transferor or Servicer. Neither the
Servicer nor the Transferor may assign any of its rights and obligations
hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of CRC and
the Program Agent.

         SECTION 7.08. Amendments. No amendments may be made to this Series
Supplement the effect of which would be to (i) change the Class A Debt Service
Amount, Class A Dynamic Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage, Class A Loss and
Dilution Reserve Percentage, Class A Purchase Limit, Class A Specified Loss and
Dilution Reserve Percentage, Class B Debt Service Amount, Class B Dynamic Loss
and Dilution Reserve Percentage, Class B Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage,
Class B Purchase Limit, Class B Specified Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage,
Concentration Limit, Default Ratio, Dilution Ratio, Loss to Liquidation Ratio,
Revolving Period, Series 1995-1 Discount Amount, Series 1995-1 Loss and Dilution
Reserve, Series 1995-1 Yield/Fee Reserve or Early Amortization Events, (ii)
reduce in any manner the amount of, or delay the timing of, distributions to be
made to any Series 1995-1 Certificateholder or deposits of amounts to be so
distributed, (iii) cause any adverse tax effect for any Series 1995-1
Certificateholder without the consent of each affected Series 1995-1
Certificateholder or (iv) adversely affect in any material respect the interests
of any Series 1995-1 Certificateholder, in each case unless the Rating Agency
Condition is satisfied and a Majority in Interest of the Series 1995-1
Certificateholders has consented in writing.



                                       31
<PAGE>   35
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Series
Supplement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly
authorized as of the day and year first above written.

                                           DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.,
                                             Transferor
                                             by DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                             as its general partner

                                           By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                              Title: PRESIDENT

                                           DELL USA L.P.,
                                             Servicer
                                             by DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                             as its general partner

                                           By: /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                              Title: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

                                           NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA,
                                             NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,

                                           Trustee

                                           By: /s/ Michael G. Lugar
                                              ----------------------------------
                                              Name:  MICHAEL G. LUGAR
                                              Title: CORPORATE TRUST OFFICER
<PAGE>   36
   
    

   
                            EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES
    

   
   The following Exhibits and Schedule have been omitted from this filing:
    


   
            Exhibit A -- Form of Series 1995-1 Class A Certificate
            Exhibit B -- Form of Series 1995-1 Class B Certificate  
            Exhibit C -- Form of Determination Date Certificate
            Exhibit D -- Form of Daily Report
            Exhibit E -- Form of Officer's Certificate


    
   
            Schedule I -- Series 1995-1 Accounts and Paying Agent's Account
    


   
The registrant hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of any such
Exhibit or schedule to the Commission upon request.
    


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.24
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>CERTIFICATE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.24
    


                                                                  EXECUTION COPY

================================================================================


                         CERTIFICATE PURCHASE AGREEMENT

                            Dated November 30, 1995

                                     among

                             DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.
                                   as Seller,

                       CORPORATE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION,
                                 as Purchaser,

                     THE LIQUIDITY PROVIDERS NAMED HEREIN,
                            as Liquidity Providers,

                         CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
                              as Program Agent for
                       Corporate Receivables Corporation
                          and the Liquidity Providers

                                      and
                 NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
                                   as Trustee

================================================================================
<PAGE>   2
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
<S>                                                                         <C>
                                    ARTICLE I
                                   DEFINITIONS

SECTION 1.01  Defined Terms.............................................      1
SECTION 1.02  Other Definitional Provisions.............................      4

                                   ARTICLE II
                             THE PURCHASE; INCREASES

SECTION 2.01  The Purchase..............................................      4
SECTION 2.02  Increases.................................................      5
SECTION 2.03  Class A Certificates......................................      5
SECTION 2.04  Reductions to the Class A Purchase Limit..................      5
SECTION 2.05  Procedures for Making the Purchase and
                Increases...............................................      6
SECTION 2.06  Assignment by CRC to Liquidity Providers..................      7
SECTION 2.07  Term......................................................      8

                                   ARTICLE III
                          FEES AND INTEREST PROTECTION

SECTION 3.01  Fees......................................................      9
SECTION 3.02  Increased Costs...........................................      9
SECTION 3.03  Taxes.....................................................     10
SECTION 3.04  Sharing of Payments.......................................     12

                                   ARTICLE IV
             CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO THE PURCHASE AND ALL INCREASES

SECTION 4.01  Conditions Precedent to the Purchase......................     12
SECTION 4.02  Conditions Precedent to All Increases.....................     12

                                    ARTICLE V
                                THE PROGRAM AGENT

SECTION 5.01  Authorization and Action of the Program
                Agent...................................................     13
SECTION 5.02  The Program Agent's Reliance, Etc.........................     13
SECTION 5.03  The Program Agent and Affiliates..........................     13
SECTION 5.04  Amendments, Waivers and Consents..........................     14
</TABLE>

                                       i
<PAGE>   3
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
<S>                                                                         <C>
                                   ARTICLE VI
                                   ASSIGNMENTS

SECTION 6.01  Restrictions on Assignments...............................     15
SECTION 6.02  Rights of Assignee........................................     15
SECTION 6.03  Notice of Assignment......................................     15

                                   ARTICLE VII
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 7.01  Participations............................................     15

                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

SECTION 8.01  Amendments, Etc...........................................     15
SECTION 8.02  Notices, Etc..............................................     15
SECTION 8.03  No Waiver; Remedies.......................................     16
SECTION 8.04  Binding Effect; Survival..................................     16
SECTION 8.05  No Proceedings............................................     17
SECTION 8.06  Captions and Cross References.............................     17
SECTION 8.07  Integration...............................................     17
SECTION 8.08  Governing Law.............................................     17
SECTION 8.09  Submission to Jurisdiction................................     17
SECTION 8.10  Waiver of Jury Trial......................................     18
SECTION 8.11  Execution in Counterparts.................................     18
SECTION 8.12  Replacement of Liquidity Providers........................     18
SECTION 8.11  Reimbursement of Program Agent............................     18
SECTION 8.12  No Conflict of Interest...................................     18
SECTION 8.13  Withholding Taxes.........................................     18
</TABLE>


EXHIBIT A                  Form of Assignment and Acceptance
EXHIBIT B                  Form of Notice of Purchase
EXHIBIT C                  Form of Notice of Increases
EXHIBIT D                  Form of Officer's Certificate

                                       ii
<PAGE>   4
                  CERTIFICATE PURCHASE AGREEMENT dated November 30, 1995 (this
"Agreement") among DELL RECEIVABLES L.P., a Texas limited partnership, as Seller
(the "Seller"), CORPORATE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION ("CRC"), as purchaser (the
"Purchaser"), THE FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS LISTED FROM TIME TO TIME ON THE
SIGNATURE PAGES HERETO AS LIQUIDITY PROVIDERS (individually, a "Liquidity
Provider" and collectively, the "Liquidity Providers"), CITICORP NORTH AMERICA,
INC., as agent (the "Program Agent") for the Purchaser and the Liquidity
Providers, and NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as trustee (the
"Trustee").

                              W I T N E S S E T H:

                  WHEREAS, the Dell Trade Receivables Master Trust may issue the
Series 1995-1 Certificates (as hereinafter defined) at the direction of the
Seller;

                  WHEREAS, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement
and of the Series 1995-1 Supplement, the Seller may sell the Class A
Certificates to CRC or the Liquidity Providers;

                  WHEREAS, subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, CRC may and the Liquidity Providers shall fund from time to time
Increases in the Class A Invested Amount; and

                  WHEREAS, the Class A Certificates will be held by the Program
Agent for CRC and the Liquidity Providers;

                  NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
covenants herein contained, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:

                                        1
<PAGE>   5
                                    ARTICLE I
                                   DEFINITIONS

                  Section 1.01. Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, terms
defined in the foregoing paragraphs shall have their defined meanings when used
herein and the following terms shall have the following meanings:

                  "Adjusted Eurodollar Rate" shall mean, for any period selected
by the Transferor and consented to by the Program Agent (including, but not
limited to, one-month or three-month LIBOR), an interest rate per annum obtained
by dividing (i) the rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. Dollars are offered
by the principal office of Citibank in London to prime banks in the London
interbank market at 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Eurodollar Business Days (as
defined below) before the first day of such period by (ii) the percentage equal
to 100% minus the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage (as defined below) for such
Collection Period. "Eurodollar Business Day" means a day on which dealings are
carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in
London and are not required or authorized to close in New York City. "Eurodollar
Reserve Percentage" for Citibank in London for any period means the reserve
percentage applicable during such period under regulations issued from time to
time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or any successor)
(or, if more than one such percentage shall be so applicable, the daily average
of such percentages for those days in such period during which any such
percentage shall so be applicable) for determining the maximum reserve
requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other
marginal reserve requirement) for Citibank in London in respect of liabilities
or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency liabilities as that term is
used in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (or
any successor), having a term equal to such period.

                  "Assignment and Acceptance" shall mean an assignment and
acceptance in substantially the form of Exhibit A pursuant to which a Liquidity
Provider assigns all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this
Agreement in accordance with the terms of Section 6.01.

                  "Class A Certificate Interest" shall mean each interest in the
Class A Certificates acquired by CRC or a Liquidity Provider in connection with
the Purchase or any Increase in the Class A Invested Amount.

                  "Class A Certificateholder" shall mean CRC or the Liquidity
Providers, as applicable.

                  "CRC" shall mean Corporate Receivables Corporation and its
successors and assigns, but shall not include the Liquidity Providers as
assignee under Section 2.06.

                  "Dell" shall mean Dell Computer Corporation.

                                        2
<PAGE>   6
                  "Extension Term" shall have the meaning assigned to such term
in Section 2.07.

                  "Initial Term" shall mean, with respect to each Liquidity
Provider Commitment, the period which commences on the date such Liquidity
Provider enters into this Agreement and ends on the date which is three years
from the date of this Agreement.

                  "Liquidity Provider Commitment" shall mean, as to any
Liquidity Provider, the obligation of such Liquidity Provider to (i) make the
Purchase pursuant to Section 2.01, (ii) purchase the Class A Certificate
Interests of CRC pursuant to Section 2.06 and (iii) fund Increases in the Class
A Invested Amount, in each instance up to the amount set forth opposite such
Liquidity Provider's name on the signature pages hereto, subject to Section
2.02, or as otherwise set forth in an Assignment and Acceptance in connection
with an assignment from a Liquidity Provider of its obligations hereunder in
accordance with the terms of Section 6.01, as such amount may be reduced from
time to time pursuant to Section 2.04.

                  "Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentage" shall mean, on any
day and as to any Liquidity Provider, a fraction, the numerator of which is such
Liquidity Provider's Liquidity Provider Commitment and the denominator of which
is the Class A Purchase Limit on such day, as such percentage may be modified by
assignments made from time to time pursuant to Section 6.01.

                  "Liquidity Providers" shall mean the banks and financial
institutions party hereto from time to time as "Liquidity Providers" hereunder,
as their names appear on the signature pages hereto under the heading "Liquidity
Providers" or as otherwise set forth in an Assignment and Acceptance in
connection with an assignment from a Liquidity Provider of its rights and
obligations hereunder in accordance with the terms of Section 6.01.

                  "Majority of Class A Certificate Interests" shall mean holders
of Class A Certificate Interests evidencing 51% of more of the aggregate Class A
Certificate Interests; provided that, solely for purposes of this computation,
(i) Liquidity Providers shall be deemed to hold Class A Certificate Interests
equal to their respective Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentages of such
aggregate Class A Certificate Interests, whether or not they have made the
Purchase or funded any Increases, and (ii) CRC's Class A Certificate Interest
will be reduced by the amount set forth in clause (i) and also by the amount of
any Class A Certificate Interests held by Persons other than Liquidity
Providers.

                  "Obligations" shall mean all obligations of any Originator,
the Seller, the Servicer or Dell to the Trustee, the Trust, the Purchaser, the
Liquidity Providers, any Enhancement Provider, the other Indemnified Parties and
their respective successors, permitted transferees and assigns, arising under or
in connection with the Transaction Documents and the Fee Letter,

                                        3
<PAGE>   7
howsoever created, arising or evidenced, whether direct or indirect, absolute or
contingent, now or hereafter existing, or due or to become due.

                  "Pooling and Servicing Agreement" shall mean the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement, dated as of November 15, 1995, among the Seller, as
transferor, the Servicer and the Trustee, as amended, supplemented or otherwise
modified from time to time.

                  "Purchase" shall mean the purchase of the Class A
Certificates, whether by CRC or the Liquidity Providers.

                  "Purchase Date" shall mean the date of the Purchase.

                  "Purchase Price" shall mean the price specified in the notice
from the Seller (substantially in the form of Exhibit B) delivered pursuant to
Section 2.01.

                  "Purchaser" shall mean either CRC or the Liquidity Providers,
as provided in Section 2.01.

                  "Series 1995-1 Supplement" shall mean the Series 1995-1
Supplement dated as of November 15, 1995 among the Seller, the Servicer and the
Trustee.

                  "Term" shall mean, with respect to each Liquidity Provider
Commitment, the Initial Term and each Extension Term as provided in Section
2.07.

                  SECTION 1.02. Other Definitional Provisions. (a) All
capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are defined in the Series 1995-1
Supplement.

                  (b) As used herein, in the Class A Certificates and in any
certificate or other document made or delivered pursuant hereto, accounting
terms not defined in Section 1.01 and accounting terms partly defined in Section
1.01 to the extent not defined, shall have the respective meanings given to them
under generally accepted accounting principles as in effect in the United States
from time to time.

                  (c) The words "hereof", "herein" and "hereunder" and words of
similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a
whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement, and Section,
subsection, Schedule and Exhibit references are to this Agreement unless
otherwise specified.

                  (d) The meanings given to terms defined herein shall be
equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of such terms.

                                        4
<PAGE>   8
                                   ARTICLE II
                             THE PURCHASE; INCREASES

                  SECTION 2.01. The Purchase. (a) CRC may, in its sole
discretion, make the Purchase. CRC's election to make the Purchase is subject to
the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.01.

                  (b) If CRC shall elect not to make the Purchase on the
Purchase Date, the Liquidity Providers shall, subject to the satisfaction of the
conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.01, make the Purchase and shall
become "the Purchaser" in all respects hereunder. Each Liquidity Provider shall
make the Purchase in an amount equal to its Liquidity Provider Commitment
Percentage of the Purchase Price.

                  (c) Under no circumstances shall CRC or the Liquidity
Providers make the Purchase if, as a result thereof, the Class A Invested Amount
would exceed the Class A Purchase Limit or, in the case of a Liquidity Provider,
such Liquidity Provider's Liquidity Provider Commitment.

                  SECTION 2.02. Increases. (a) CRC may, in its sole discretion,
from time to time during the period from the date of this Agreement to the last
day of the Revolving Period, upon the request of the Seller and subject to the
satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.01, fund
Increases, and, upon so funding an Increase, shall acquire Class A Certificate
Interests in an amount corresponding to the amount of such Increase.

                  (b) If CRC elects not to fund a requested Increase, each
Liquidity Provider shall, upon the request of the Seller and subject to the
satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.01, fund such
Increase in an amount equal to its Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentage of
the amount of such requested Increase, and shall acquire CRC's Class A
Certificate Interest pursuant to Section 2.06. All Increases funded by the
Liquidity Providers shall be at the Assignee Rate and shall be made on a pro
rata basis in accordance with the Liquidity Provider Commitments.

                  (c) Under no circumstances shall CRC or any Liquidity Provider
fund any Increase to the extent that, after giving effect to such Increase and
the other Increases to be funded by the other Liquidity Providers concurrently
therewith, (i) the Class A Invested Amount would exceed the Class A Purchase
Limit or (ii) with respect to any Liquidity Provider, the funding of such
Increase would exceed its Liquidity Provider Commitment.

                  SECTION 2.03. Class A Certificates. On the Purchase Date, on
each date an Increase in the Class A Invested Amount is funded hereunder and on
each date the Class A Invested Amount is reduced, a duly authorized officer or
employee of the Program Agent

                                        5
<PAGE>   9
shall make appropriate notations in its books and records of the Purchase Price,
the amount of such Increase and the amount of such reduction, as applicable.
Each of the Servicer, the Seller and the Trustee hereby authorizes each duly
authorized officer and employee of the Program Agent to make such notations on
the books and records as aforesaid and every such notation made in accordance
with the foregoing authority shall be prima facie evidence of the accuracy of
the information so recorded and shall be binding on the Seller and the Trustee
absent manifest error. All Increases in the Class A Invested Amount shall be
subject to reduction in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the
Series 1995-1 Supplement.

                  SECTION 2.04. Reductions to the Class A Purchase Limit. The
Seller may, from time to time, upon at least 10 Business Days' prior written
notice to the Program Agent, elect to reduce the Class A Purchase Limit by an
amount up to the difference between the Class A Purchase Limit at such time and
the Class A Invested Amount at such time. Any such reduction shall be permanent
and shall reduce the Liquidity Provider Commitments of the Liquidity Providers
hereunder ratably in accordance with the Liquidity Provider Commitment
Percentages.

                  SECTION 2.05. Procedures for Making the Purchase and
Increases.

                  (a) Notice of the Purchase and Increases. The Purchase and
each Increase shall occur on a Business Day and shall be made or funded on
notice from the Seller (substantially in the form of Exhibit B, in the case of
the Purchase, or Exhibit C, in the case of an Increase) to the Program Agent
received by the Program Agent not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on,
in the case of the Purchase, the fifth Business Day immediately preceding the
Purchase Date or, in the case of an Increase, on the Business Day immediately
preceding the date of such increase (with a copy provided to the Trustee);
provided that if the Class A Certificate Rate for the initial Collection Period
for the resulting Increase is to be calculated at a rate based on the Adjusted
Eurodollar Rate, then such notice must be received not later than 12:00 noon
(New York City time) on the third Business Day next preceding the date of such
Increase. Each notice shall specify the Purchase Price or the amount of the
Increase (in each case, not to be less than $5,000,000) and the Purchase Date or
date of the Increase. The Program Agent shall promptly notify the Seller and
each Liquidity Provider if CRC elects in its discretion not to make the Purchase
or fund an Increase.

                  (b) Delivery of the Class A Certificates. On the Purchase
Date, the Seller will deliver to the Program Agent, on behalf of the Purchaser,
the Class A Certificates, dated the Purchase Date, registered in the name of the
Purchaser and duly authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement against delivery by the Program Agent, on behalf
of the Purchaser, to the Seller of the Purchase Price.

                                        6
<PAGE>   10
                  (c) Funding of the Purchase and Increases. On the Purchase
Date and any date on which the an Increase is funded, CRC or the Liquidity
Providers, as applicable, shall, upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions
set forth in Article IV, deposit to the Program Agent's account, which shall be
identified as "Dell Master Trust CRC Remittance Account No. 4067-5766",
established at Citibank, N.A., the Purchase Price or amount of the Increase (in
the case of CRC) or its Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentage of the Increase
(in the case of each Liquidity Provider) in same day funds, and after receipt by
the Program Agent of such funds, the Program Agent will deposit the same into
the Seller's account, which shall be identified as "Dell Receivables L.P.
Account No. 4068-5227", established at Citibank, N.A., the Program Agent to use
its best efforts to make such deposit by not later than 12:00 noon (New York
City time).

                  SECTION 2.06. Assignments by CRC to Liquidity Providers. (a)
On any date during the Term (including, without limitation, any date on which
CRC has elected in its discretion not to fund an Increase hereunder pursuant to
Section 2.02), CRC may, in its own discretion, upon written notice given to the
Program Agent and the Seller, assign to the Liquidity Providers (in accordance
with their respective Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentages) and the
Liquidity Providers shall purchase all of the right and title to and interest in
all Class A Certificate Interests which are then owned by CRC. Such assignment
of Class A Certificate Interests shall be made upon receipt of consideration (in
cash) from the Liquidity Providers equal to the lesser of:

                  (i) the aggregate amount of outstanding Class A Invested
         Amount plus accrued but unpaid interest thereon, and

             (ii) FAP x (OB-Writeoffs)
                  -------------------- 
                          LDRA

             Where:

             FAP        =    the Class A Certificates' pro rata portion of the
                             Series 1995-1 Floating Allocation Percentage

             OB         =    the Outstanding Balance of the Receivables

             Writeoffs  =    the Outstanding Balance of any Receivables which
                             have been or should have been written off,
                             determined by the Program Agent (which
                             determination shall be conclusive absent manifest
                             error) in accordance with CRC's practices and
                             policies, which practices and policies are in
                             accordance with generally accepted accounting
                             principles

                                        7
<PAGE>   11
             LDRA       =    a loss and dilution reserve adjustment, computed by
                             adding to the number 1 an amount (expressed as a
                             fraction) equal to 50% of the Class A Specified
                             Loss and Dilution Reserve Percentage;

provided that no Liquidity Provider shall be required to purchase any Class A
Certificate Interest to the extent that, after giving effect thereto, its
Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentage of the then outstanding Class A
Invested Amount would exceed its Liquidity Provider Commitment. For purposes of
the foregoing computations, Outstanding Balance shall be calculated on the date,
and Writeoffs shall be computed since the date, the Series 1995-1 Floating
Allocation Percentage was last computed or deemed computed.

                  (b) Upon the assignment described in subsection (a) above, (i)
all Class A Certificate Interests previously owned by CRC and so assigned shall
become Class A Certificate Interests owned by the Liquidity Providers, (ii) the
Program Agent will present the Class A Certificates to the Trustee for transfer
to the Liquidity Providers and the Trustee shall register new Class A
Certificates in the name of the Liquidity Providers and the Program Agent shall
make appropriate notations in its books and records of such assignment and (iii)
the Program Agent shall, to the extent provided under the Series 1995-1
Supplement, pay to CRC on the date of such assignment if such assignment occurs
on a Distribution Date, or on the next succeeding Distribution Date, out of
Collections available for such payments as provided in the Series 1995-1
Supplement, (A) to the extent CRC received the amount described in clause (ii)
of Section 2.06(a) above, all accrued and unpaid interest with respect to the
Class A Invested Amount related to the Class A Certificate Interests so assigned
and (B) any Breakage Costs.

                  (c) The assignment of Class A Certificate Interests and the
Class A Certificates from CRC to the Liquidity Providers pursuant to this
Section 2.06 shall be without recourse or warranty, express or implied, except
that such Class A Certificate Interests and the Class A Certificates are free
and clear of adverse claims created by or arising as a result of claims against
the Program Agent or CRC. Nothing in this Section 2.06 shall be deemed to limit
any rights of CRC under any other provisions of this Agreement to assign its
right, title to and interest in and to any portion of the Class A Certificate
Interests or the Class A Certificates owned by it.

         SECTION 2.07. Term. (a) The Initial Term of each Liquidity Provider
Commitment hereunder shall be for a period commencing on the date such Liquidity
Provider enters into this Agreement and ending on the date that is three years
after the date of this Agreement. Prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or
any Extension Term, the Program Agent may request an extension of such Term
(such extended period being an "Extension Term") and each Liquidity Provider
may, in its sole and absolute discretion, extend

                                        8
<PAGE>   12
its Liquidity Provider Commitment by delivering to the Program Agent a written
notice of such Liquidity Provider's commitment to extend, provided, however,
that any such extension shall be ineffective if an Early Amortization Event has
occurred and is continuing at the time of the proposed commencement of such
Extension Term. Failure of a Liquidity Provider to deliver a notice of such
Liquidity Provider's intent to grant an Extension Term shall be deemed to be an
election by such Liquidity Provider not to grant an Extension Term. If less than
all of the Liquidity Providers have elected to grant an Extension Term and the
Program Agent has been unable to replace any Liquidity Provider which has
declined to grant an Extension Term, such request for an Extension Term shall be
withdrawn and the Program Agent will so notify the Liquidity Providers prior to
the day on which the Term expires.

                                        9
<PAGE>   13
                                   ARTICLE III
                          FEES AND INTEREST PROTECTION

                  SECTION 3.01. Fees. The Seller shall pay to the Program Agent
such fee for its own account and for the account of CRC and the Liquidity
Providers in such amounts and at such times as set forth in the Fee Letter.

                  SECTION 3.02. Increased Costs. (a) If CRC or any Liquidity
Provider (each, an "Affected Person") determines that compliance with any law or
regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other
governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) affects or would
affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such
Affected Person and such Affected Person determines that the amount of such
capital is increased by or based upon the existence of any commitment to make
the Purchase or fund Increases or otherwise to maintain its investment in the
Class A Certificates or Class A Certificate Interests, then, upon demand by such
Affected Person (with a copy to the Program Agent and the Seller), the Seller
shall immediately pay to the Program Agent, for the account of such Affected
Person (as a third party beneficiary), additional amounts sufficient to
compensate such Affected Person, in light of the circumstances, for such
increase in capital. A certificate as to such amounts submitted to the Seller
and the Program Agent by such Affected Person shall be conclusive and binding
for all purposes, absent manifest error.

                  (b) If, due to either (i) the introduction or any change
(other than any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements
referred to in the definition of Eurodollar Reserve Percentage) in or in the
interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) compliance with any guideline or
request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not
having the force of law), there shall be an increase in the cost to any
Liquidity Provider of any commitment to make the Purchase or to fund Increases
or otherwise to maintain the investment in the Class A Certificates or Class A
Certificate Interests in respect of which the Class A Certificate Rate is the
Adjusted Eurodollar Rate, then, upon demand by such Liquidity Provider (with a
copy to the Program Agent and the Seller), the Seller shall immediately pay to
the Program Agent, for the account of such Liquidity Provider (as a third party
beneficiary), additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Liquidity
Provider for such increase in cost. A certificate as to such amounts submitted
to the Seller and the Program Agent by such Affected Person, shall be conclusive
and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.

                  (c) CRC and each Liquidity Provider will promptly notify the
Seller and the Program Agent of any event of which it has knowledge which is
reasonably likely to entitle such Liquidity Provider to compensation pursuant to
this Section 3.02; provided, however, that no failure to give or delay in giving
such

                                       10
<PAGE>   14
notification shall adversely affect the rights of CRC or any Liquidity Provider
to such compensation.

                  SECTION 3.03. Taxes. (a) Any and all payments and deposits
required to be made hereunder or under any other Transaction Document by the
Seller or the Trustee to or for the benefit of CRC or any Liquidity Provider
shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or
future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all
liabilities with respect thereto, excluding taxes imposed on, or measured by
reference to, the net income of, franchise taxes imposed on, and taxes (other
than withholding taxes) imposed on the receipts or gross receipts that are
imposed on CRC or such Liquidity Provider by any of (i) the United States or any
State thereof, (ii) the state jurisdiction under the laws of which CRC or such
Liquidity Provider is organized or in which it is otherwise doing business or
(iii) any political subdivision thereof (all such non-excluded taxes, levies,
imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities being hereinafter
referred to as "Taxes"). If the Seller or the Trustee shall be required by law
to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum required to be paid or
deposited hereunder or under any instrument delivered hereunder to or for the
benefit of CRC or any Liquidity Provider, (A) such sum shall be increased as may
be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions
applicable to additional sums required to be paid or deposited under this
Section 3.03) the amount received by CRC or the relevant Liquidity Provider, or
otherwise deposited hereunder or under such instrument, shall be equal to the
sum which would have been so received or deposited had no such deductions been
made, (B) the Seller or the Trustee (as appropriate) shall make such deductions
and (C) the Seller or the Trustee (as appropriate) shall pay the full amount of
such deductions to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in
accordance with applicable law.

                  (b) The Seller will indemnify CRC and each Liquidity Provider
for the full amount of Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes imposed
by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 3.03) paid by CRC or
such Liquidity Provider and any liability (including penalties, interest and
expenses) arising therefrom or required to be paid with respect thereto. CRC and
each Liquidity Provider agrees to promptly notify the Seller of any payment of
Taxes made by it and, if practicable, any request, demand or notice received in
respect thereof prior to such payment. CRC and each Liquidity Provider shall be
entitled to payment of this indemnification, as owner of Class A Certificate
Interests pursuant to the terms of the Series 1995-1 Supplement, within 30 days
from the date CRC or such Liquidity Provider makes written demand therefor to
the Program Agent and the Seller. A certificate as to the amount of such
indemnification submitted to the Seller and the Program Agent by CRC or such
Liquidity Provider, setting forth the calculation thereof, shall (absent
manifest error) be conclusive and binding for all purposes.

                                       11
<PAGE>   15
                  (c) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the
Seller or the Trustee (as the case may be) will furnish to the Program Agent the
original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof.

                  (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing and any other provisions of
this Section 3.03, the obligations of the Trustee under this Section 3.03 shall
be payable only out of the Trust Assets.

                  (e) Each Liquidity Provider that is organized under the laws
of a jurisdiction other than the United States or a state thereof hereby agrees
to complete, execute and deliver to the Trustee from time to time prior to the
initial Distribution Date on which such Liquidity Provider will be entitled to
receive distributions pursuant to the Series 1995-1 Supplement and this
Agreement, Internal Revenue Service Forms 1001 or 4224 (or any successor form),
as applicable, or such other forms or certificates as may be required under the
laws of any applicable jurisdiction in order to permit the Seller or the Trustee
to make payments to, and deposit funds to or for the account of, such Liquidity
Provider hereunder and under the other Transaction Documents without any
deduction or withholding for or on account of any tax or with such withholding
or deduction at a reduced rate.

                  SECTION 3.04. Sharing of Payments. If CRC or any Liquidity
Provider shall obtain any payment or other recovery (whether voluntary,
involuntary, by application of set-off or otherwise) on account of any
Obligation (other than pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement) which is in
excess of its pro rata share of the sum of payments then or theretofore obtained
by CRC and the Liquidity Providers, CRC or any such Liquidity Provider shall
purchase from the Liquidity Providers or CRC, as applicable, such participations
in Obligations held by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchaser to
share the excess payment or other recovery ratably with each of them; provided,
however, that if all or any portion of the excess payment or other recovery is
thereafter recovered from such purchasing Liquidity Provider or CRC, as the case
may be, the purchase of such participations shall be rescinded and the seller of
such participation shall repay to such purchaser the purchase price of such
participation to the ratable extent of such recovery together with an amount
equal to such Liquidity Provider's or CRC's ratable share (according to the
proportion of the amount of such seller's required repayment to such purchaser
to the total amount so recovered from such purchaser) of any interest or other
Amount payable by such purchaser in respect of the total amount so recovered.

                                       12
<PAGE>   16
                                   ARTICLE IV
             CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO THE PURCHASE AND ALL INCREASES

                  SECTION 4.01. Conditions Precedent to the Purchase. (a) The
making of the Purchase is subject to the following conditions precedent:

                  (i) the Seller shall have furnished to the Purchaser an
         opinion of Baker & Botts, L.L.P., counsel for the Seller, dated the
         Purchase Date and satisfactory in form and substance to the Purchaser,
         as to such matters as the Purchaser may reasonably require;

                  (ii) the Seller shall have furnished to the Purchaser an
         opinion of Thomas B. Green, counsel for the Seller, dated the Purchase
         Date and satisfactory in form and substance to the Purchaser, as to
         such matters as the Purchaser may reasonably require;

                  (iii) the Purchaser shall have received an opinion of Brown &
         Wood, counsel for the Purchaser, dated the Purchase Date and
         satisfactory in form and substance to the Purchaser, as to such matters
         as the Purchaser may reasonably require;

                  (iv) the Purchaser shall have received an opinion of in-house
         counsel for the Trustee, dated the Purchase Date and satisfactory in
         form and substance to the Purchaser, as to such matters as the
         Purchaser may reasonably require;

                  (v) the Purchaser shall have received a certificate, dated the
         Purchase Date, of the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice
         President, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the principal
         financial officer or the principal accounting officer of the Seller in
         which such officer shall state that the representations and warranties
         of the Seller contained in this Agreement and the other Transaction
         Documents are true and correct, and the Seller has complied with all
         agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or
         satisfied under such agreements at or prior to such date;

                  (vi) the Purchaser shall have received evidence satisfactory
         to it that, on or before the Purchase Date, UCC-1 financing statements
         have been or are being filed in the office of the Secretary of State of
         the State of Texas reflecting the grant of the security interest by the
         Originators in the Receivables to the Transferor and the grant of the
         security interest by the Transferor in the Trust Assets to the Trustee,
         for the benefit of the Certificateholders;

                  (vii) the Class A Certificates shall have been rated "AAA" by
         S&P and DCR;

                                       13
<PAGE>   17
                  (viii) no Termination Event (as defined in the Receivables
         Purchase Agreement), Early Amortization Event or Servicer Default, and
         no event that (a) if notice of such event were given or (b) after a
         specified amount of time had elapsed would become a Termination Event,
         Early Amortization Event or Servicer Default, shall have occurred and
         be continuing;

                  (ix) the Revolving Period shall not have ended and an Early
         Amortization Period shall not have occurred and be continuing;

                  (x) any and all representations and warranties made by the
         Transferor and by the Servicer in the Series 1995-1 Supplement shall be
         true and correct in all material respects, as if repeated on such date
         with respect to the facts and circumstances then existing;

                  (xi) the Pooling and Servicing Agreement, Series 1995-1
         Supplement, Receivables Purchase Agreement and Parent Undertaking
         Agreement shall be in full force and effect;

                  (xii) after making the Purchase or funding such Increase, the
         Class A Invested Amount shall not exceed the Class A Purchase Limit;

                  (xiii) the Program Agent shall have received by 12:00 noon
         (New York City time), on the Purchase Date or the date of such Increase
         the Daily Report, which shall be prepared on a pro forma basis and
         shall show that the Seller is in compliance with all of the Transaction
         Documents (after giving effect to the Purchase or such Increase); and

                  (xiv) the Seller shall have delivered to CRC and the Liquidity
         Providers an Officer's Certificate in the form of Exhibit D hereto.

                  (b) If CRC is the Purchaser, the making of the Purchase and
the funding of Increases are subject to the following additional conditions
precedent:

                  (i) Dell shall have a long-term senior unsecured debt rating
         of at least "B" from S&P and Moody's or, if Dell does not have such a
         rating from both S&P and Moody's, Dell shall have a long-term senior
         unsecured debt rating deemed by the Program Agent, in its sole
         discretion, to be of credit quality equivalent to at least "B+" by S&P
         and at least "B1" by Moody's; and

                  (ii) the Program Agent shall not have given notice that CRC
         will not make the Purchase or fund an Increase.

                  SECTION 4.02. Conditions Precedent to All Increases. The
funding of all Increases is subject to the conditions precedent specified in
subsections (viii)-(xiv) of Section 4.01 and to the

                                       14
<PAGE>   18
conditions precedent that (a) CRC shall have made the assignment contemplated in
Section 2.06(a) of all Class A Certificate Interests it then holds and (b) all
Obligors shall have been directed to remit, and shall be remitting, Collections
with respect to Floorplan Receivables directly to a Dell Collection Account.

                                       15
<PAGE>   19
                                    ARTICLE V
                                THE PROGRAM AGENT

                  SECTION 5.01. Authorization and Action of the Program Agent.
CRC and each Liquidity Provider hereby appoints and authorizes the Program Agent
to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under
this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents as are delegated to the
Program Agent by the terms hereof and thereof, together with such powers as are
reasonably incidental thereto.

                  SECTION 5.02. The Program Agent's Reliance, Etc. Neither the
Program Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be
liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or the Program Agent
under or in connection with the Transaction Documents or the Fee Letter, except
for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limiting
the generality of the foregoing, the Program Agent (a) may consult with
independent legal counsel (including counsel for the Trust, the Seller or the
Servicer), independent certified public accountants and other experts selected
by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in
good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or
experts, (b) makes no representation or warranty to CRC, any Liquidity Provider
or any such other holder of any interest in the Trust Assets and shall not be
responsible to CRC, any Liquidity Provider or any other holder for any
statements, representations or warranties made in or in connection with this
Agreement, (c) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the
performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of the
Transaction Documents or the Fee Letter on the part of the Trust, the Seller or
the Servicer or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the
Trust, the Seller or the Servicer, (d) shall not be responsible to CRC, any
Liquidity Provider or any other holder of any interest in Trust Assets for the
due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or
value of any Transaction Document or the Fee Letter (except for the execution by
the Program Agent of, and legality, validity and enforceability against the
Program Agent of its obligations under, the Transaction Documents to which the
Program Agent is a party and the Fee Letter), and (e) shall incur no liability
under or in respect of the Transaction Documents or the Fee Letter by acting
upon any notice (including notice by telephone), consent, certificate or other
instrument or writing (which may be by facsimile or telex believed by it to be
genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties; except in each case
for gross negligence or wilful misconduct on the part of the Program Agent.

                  SECTION 5.03. The Program Agent and Affiliates. Citicorp North
America, Inc. and its Affiliates (including Citibank, N.A.) may generally engage
in any kind of business with the Seller or the Servicer or any Obligor, any of
their respective Affiliates and any Person who may do business with or own
securities of the Servicer or any Obligor or any of their

                                       16
<PAGE>   20
respective Affiliates, all as if Citicorp North America, Inc. were not the
Program Agent and without any duty to account therefor to CRC, any Liquidity
Provider or any other holder of an interest in Trust Assets.

                  SECTION 5.04. Amendments, Waivers and Consents. CRC and the
Program Agent each reserves the right, in its sole discretion (subject to the
next following sentence), to exercise any rights and remedies available to the
Purchaser or the Program Agent under the Transaction Documents or pursuant to
applicable law, and also to agree to any amendment, modification or waiver of
any Transaction Document, to the extent such Transaction Document provides for,
or requires, the Purchaser's or the Program Agent's agreement, modification or
waiver. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of CRC and the Program Agent agrees
for the benefit of the Liquidity Providers that it shall not, subject to the
terms of the Transaction Documents:

                  (a) without the prior written consent of each of the Liquidity
Providers,

                  (i) reduce in any manner the amount of, or delay the timing
         of, distributions to be made to any Class A Certificateholder or
         deposits of amounts to be so distributed, or

                  (ii) reduce any fees payable to the Program Agent or CRC which
         relate to payments to Liquidity Providers or delay the dates on which
         such fees are payable, or

                  (iii) modify any provision relating to the Series 1995-1 Loss
         and Dilution Reserve, the Series 1995-1 Yield/Fee Reserve or extend the
         Revolving Period, or

                  (iv) release Dell from its obligations under the Parent
         Undertaking Agreement, or

                  (v) amend or waive any Event of Termination or Early
         Amortization Event under any Transaction Document relating to the
         bankruptcy of the Seller, the Servicer or Dell.

                  (b) without the prior written consent of the Majority of Class
A Certificate Interests,

                  (i) amend, modify or waive any provision of any Transaction
         Document which would impair any rights expressly granted to an assignee
         or participant, or

                  (ii) change the definitions of Defaulted Receivable, Default
         Ratio, Eligible Receivable, Loss to Liquidation Ratio, Net Receivables
         Balance, Required Net Receivables Balance, Dilution Ratio or
         Concentration Limit, or

                                       17
<PAGE>   21
                  (iii) amend any Series 1995-1 Early Amortization Event to
         increase the maximum permitted Default Ratio, Dilution Ratio or Loss to
         Liquidation Ratio, or

                  (iv) waive violations of the maximum permitted levels for the
         Default Ratio, Dilution Ratio or Loss to Liquidation Ratio which
         violations occur for more than two consecutive months or by more than
         10% of such permitted levels for any time.

                                       18
<PAGE>   22
                                   ARTICLE VI
                                   ASSIGNMENTS

                  SECTION 6.01. Assignment. (a) At any time and from time to
time, CRC or any Liquidity Provider may assign its interests hereunder in
accordance with the provisions of Section 7.06 of the Series 1995-1 Supplement.

                  SECTION 6.02. Rights of Assignee. Upon any assignment in
accordance with this Article VI, (a) the assignee receiving such assignment
shall have all of the rights of such assignor hereunder with respect to the
Class A Certificate or Class A Certificate Interest (or portion thereof) or
rights associated therewith being assigned and (b) all references to such
assignor in the Transaction Documents shall be deemed to apply to such assignee
to the extent of its interest in the related Collections.

                  SECTION 6.03. Notice of Assignment. Each assignor shall
provide notice to the Seller, the Program Agent and the Trustee of any
assignment of any Class A Certificate or Class A Certificate Interest (or
portion thereof) or rights associated therewith by such assignor to any
assignee.

                                       19
<PAGE>   23
                                   ARTICLE VII
                                 PARTICIPATIONS

                  SECTION 7.01. Participations. Each Liquidity Provider may sell
participations, in minimum amounts of $1,000,000, to one or more banks or other
entities in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this
Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Liquidity
Provider Commitment and the Class A Certificate Interests owned by it);
provided, however, that (i) such Liquidity Provider's obligations under this
Agreement (including, without limitation, its Liquidity Provider Commitment)
shall remain unchanged and (ii) such Liquidity Provider shall remain solely
responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations.
The Seller, the Program Agent and the other Liquidity Providers shall continue
to deal solely and directly with such Liquidity Provider in connection with such
Liquidity Provider's rights and obligations under this Agreement.

                                       20
<PAGE>   24
                                  ARTICLE VIII
                                  MISCELLANEOUS

                  SECTION 8.01. Amendments, Etc. Subject to Section 5.04, no
amendment of any provision of this Agreement shall in any event be effective
unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto. Any waiver
or consent shall be effective only if signed by the party waiving any right, in
the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.

                  SECTION 8.02. Notices, Etc. All notices and other
communications provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be
in writing (including telex and facsimile communication) and shall be personally
delivered or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, or overnight courier or
facsimile, to the intended party at the address or facsimile number of such
party set forth under its name on the signature pages hereof or at such other
address or facsimile number as shall be designated by such party in a written
notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices and communications shall be
effective (a) if personally delivered, when received, (b) if sent by certified
mail, four Business Days after having been deposited in the mail, postage
prepaid, (c) if sent by overnight courier, two Business Days after having been
given to such courier, unless sooner received by the addressee and (d) if
transmitted by facsimile, when sent, upon receipt confirmed by telephone or
electronic means, except that notices and communications pursuant to Article III
shall not be effective until received. Notices and communications sent hereunder
on a day that is not a Business Day shall be deemed to have been sent on the
following Business Day.

                  SECTION 8.03. No Waiver; Remedies. No failure on the part of
the Program Agent, any Liquidity Provider, any Indemnified Party, CRC or any
other holder of any Class A Certificate Interest to exercise, and no delay in
exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any
single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further
exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein
provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
Without limiting the foregoing, the Program Agent and each Liquidity Provider is
hereby authorized by the Seller at any time and from time to time, to the
fullest extent permitted by law, to set-off and apply any and all deposits
(general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and
other indebtedness at any time owing by the Program Agent and each Liquidity
Provider to or for the credit or the account of the Seller, now or hereafter
existing under this Agreement, to the Program Agent, any Liquidity Provider, any
Indemnified Party or CRC, or their respective successors and assigns; provided,
however, that no such Person shall exercise any such right of set-off without
the prior written consent of the Program Agent. Each set-off by CRC or any
Liquidity Provider under this Section 8.03 against the Class A Invested Amount
shall reduce the Class A Invested Amount accordingly.

                                       21
<PAGE>   25
                  SECTION 8.04. Binding Effect; Survival. This Agreement shall
be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their
respective successors and assigns, and the provisions of Section 3.02 shall
inure to the benefit of the Liquidity Providers and their respective successors
and assigns; provided, however, that nothing in the foregoing shall be deemed to
authorize any assignment not permitted by Section 6.01. This Agreement shall
create and constitute the continuing obligation of the parties hereto in
accordance with its terms, and shall remain in full force and effect until one
year and one day after the earlier of the date on which all Obligations are paid
in full or the Trust shall terminate in accordance with the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement. The provisions of Section 3.02 shall be continuing and
shall survive any termination of this Agreement.

                  SECTION 8.05. No Proceedings. Each of CRC, the Seller (on its
own behalf and on behalf of its Affiliates), the Trustee, Citicorp North
America, Inc., individually and as Program Agent, and each Liquidity Provider
hereby agrees that it will not institute against CRC, or join any other Person
in instituting against CRC, any insolvency proceeding (namely, any proceeding of
the type referred to in the definition of "Insolvency Event") so long as any CP
Notes issued by CRC shall be outstanding or there shall not have elapsed one
year plus one day since the last day on which any such CP Notes shall have been
outstanding. The foregoing shall not limit the right of CRC, the Seller, the
Trustee, Citicorp North America, Inc., individually or as the Program Agent, or
any Liquidity Provider to file any claim in or otherwise take any action with
respect to any such insolvency proceeding that was instituted against CRC by any
Person other than CRC, the Seller, the Trustee, Citicorp North America, Inc.,
individually or as the Program Agent, or any Liquidity Provider.

                  SECTION 8.06. Captions and Cross References. The various
captions (including, without limitation, the table of contents) in this
Agreement are provided solely for convenience of reference and shall not affect
the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.

                  SECTION 8.07. Integration. This Agreement, together with the
other Transaction Documents and the Fee Letter, contains a final and complete
integration of all prior expressions by the parties hereto with respect to the
subject matter hereof and, together with all the other Transaction Documents and
the Fee Letter, shall constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto
with respect to the subject matter hereof, superseding all prior oral or written
understandings.

                  SECTION 8.08. Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE
TO ITS CONFLICT OF LAW PROVISIONS, EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT THAT THE PERFECTION OF
THE INTERESTS OF CRC OR

                                       22
<PAGE>   26
THE LIQUIDITY PROVIDERS IN THE TRUST ASSETS IS GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF A
JURISDICTION OTHER THAN THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

                  SECTION 8.09. Submission to Jurisdiction. Each of the parties
hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive
jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States
of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof,
in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Series
Supplement, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and
unconditionally (i) agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or
proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent
permitted by law, such federal court and (ii) waives the defense of an
inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in
any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other
jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.

                  SECTION 8.10. Consent to Service of Process. Each party to
this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery,
certified mail, postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Agreement
will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any
other manner permitted by law.

                  SECTION 8.11. Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party to this
Agreement waives any right to a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to
enforce or defend any rights under or relating to this Agreement, any other
Transaction Document, the Fee Letter or any amendment, instrument, document or
agreement delivered or which may in the future be delivered in connection
herewith or therewith or arising from any course of conduct, course of dealing,
statements (whether verbal of written), actions of any of the parties hereto and
the Liquidity Providers or any other relationship existing in connection with
this Agreement of any other Transaction Document or the Fee Letter, and agrees
that any such action or proceeding shall be tried before a court and not before
a jury.

                  SECTION 8.12. Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be
executed in any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto in
separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an
original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same
Agreement.

                  SECTION 8.13. Replacement of Liquidity Providers. The Program
Agent shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate the rights and
obligations of the Liquidity Providers to make the Purchase or fund Increases in
the event that the applicable rating described in the definition of "Eligible
Assignee" shall be downgraded. Such termination shall be effective upon written
notice to such effect delivered by the Program Agent to such Liquidity Provider,
whereupon the Term of such Liquidity

                                       23
<PAGE>   27
Provider's Commitment shall be deemed to have terminated. Upon such termination,
the Liquidity Provider shall cease to have any rights or obligations with
respect to future Increases under this Agreement but shall continue to have the
rights and obligations of a Liquidity Provider with respect to any Increases
funded by it under this Agreement prior to such termination.

                  SECTION 8.14. Reimbursement of Program Agent. Each Liquidity
Provider will on demand reimburse the Program Agent its Liquidity Provider
Commitment Percentage of any and all reasonable costs and expenses (including,
without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) which may be
incurred in connection with collecting amounts owed with respect to any
Certificate in which such Liquidity Provider purchases Class A Certificate
Interests for which the Program Agent is not promptly reimbursed by the Seller
or otherwise. Should the Program Agent later be reimbursed by the Seller or CRC
for any such amount, the Program Agent shall immediately pay to each Liquidity
Provider its Liquidity Provider Commitment Percentage of such amount.

                  SECTION 8.15. No Conflict of Interest. The Program Agent and
its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money or otherwise extend credit
to, act as trustee under indentures of, and generally engage in any kind of
business with, the Seller and any of its Affiliates and any Person who may do
business with or own securities of the Seller or any of its Affiliates, all as
though this Agreement had not been entered into and without any duty to account
therefor to CRC or any Liquidity Provider.

                  SECTION 8.16. Withholding Taxes. Each Liquidity Provider
warrants that it is not subject to any taxes, charges, levies or withholdings
with respect to payments under this Agreement that are imposed by means of
withholding by any applicable taxing authority ("Withholding Tax"). Each
Liquidity Provider agrees to provide the Program Agent, from time to time upon
the Program Agent's request, completed and signed copies of any documents that
may be required by any applicable taxing authority to certify such Liquidity
Provider's exemption from Withholding Tax with respect to payments to be made to
such Liquidity Provider under this Agreement. Each Liquidity Provider agrees to
hold the Program Agent and the Seller harmless from any Withholding Tax imposed
due to such Liquidity Provider's failure to establish that it is not subject to
Withholding Tax.

                                       24
<PAGE>   28
                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Certificate Purchase Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers
thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.

                                        DELL RECEIVABLES L.P.,
                                         as Seller
                                          by DELL RECEIVABLES GEN. P. CORP,
                                          as its general partner


                                        By /s/ THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Name:   THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                          Title:  PRESIDENT

                                        2112 Kramer Lane, Suite D
                                        Austin, Texas  78758
                                        Tel: (512) 728-5829
                                        Fax: (512) 728-5986


                                        CORPORATE RECEIVABLES CORPORATION,
                                         as Purchaser

                                        By: Citicorp North America, Inc.,
                                            as Attorney-in-Fact


                                        By/s/ RAYMOND F. DIZON
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Name:   RAYMOND F. DIZON
                                          Title:  V. P.

                                        399 Park Avenue
                                        New York, New York  10043
                                        Tel: (212)
                                        Fax: (212)


                                        CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC.,
                                         as Program Agent


                                        By/s/ RAYMOND F. DIZON
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          Name:   RAYMOND F. DIZON
                                          Title:  V. P.

                                        399 Park Avenue
                                        New York, New York  10043
                                        Tel: (212)
                                        Fax: (212)
<PAGE>   29
   
    

   
                               EXHIBITS
    


   
      The following Exhibits have been omitted from this filing:
    

   
            Exhibit A -- Form of Assignment and Acceptance
            Exhibit B -- Form of Notice of Purchase
            Exhibit C -- Form of Notice of Increase
            Exhibit D -- Form of Officer's Certificate
    

   
The registrant hereby undertakes to furnish supplementally a copy of any such
Exhibit to the Commission upon request.
    

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.25
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>PARENT UNDERTAKING AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.25
    


                                                                  EXECUTION COPY


                          PARENT UNDERTAKING AGREEMENT

         PARENT UNDERTAKING AGREEMENT, dated as of November 21, 1995, made by
DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the laws
of the State of Delaware ("Dell"), in favor of Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee") on behalf of the Certificateholders.

         WHEREAS, Dell Marketing L.P., as seller, and Dell Receivables L.P., as
purchaser (the "Transferor") have entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement
dated as of November 21, 1995; and

         WHEREAS, Dell Direct Sales L.P., as seller, and the Transferor have
entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of November 21, 1995; and

         WHEREAS, Dell USA L.P. (the "Servicer"), the Transferor and the Trustee
have entered into a Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 21,
1995 (said Agreement, as it may hereafter be modified from time to time, the
"Pooling and Servicing Agreement"); and

         WHEREAS, it is a condition precedent to the transfer of the Receivables
to the Trust and the issuance of the Certificates under the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement that Dell shall have executed and delivered this Agreement;

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in order to induce
Investor Certificateholders to make purchases of Certificates and to fund
Increases, Dell hereby agrees as follows:

         SECTION 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement. In addition, the term "Agreement" shall mean this Parent Undertaking
Agreement, as the same may from time to time be amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified.

         SECTION 2. Unconditional Undertaking. Dell hereby unconditionally and
irrevocably undertakes and agrees with and for the benefit of the Trustee to
cause the due and punctual performance and observance by the Servicer (for as
long as Dell USA L.P., or any Person who assumes the role of Servicer pursuant
to a merger or consolidation permitted under Section 8.02 of the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement, is the Servicer) of all of the covenants, agreements and 
undertakings under Sections 3.02, 3.04 and 11.05 of 

<PAGE>   2
the Pooling and Servicing Agreement (such covenants, agreements, and other  
obligations under the Pooling and Servicing Agreement being the "Servicing
Undertakings"), and agrees to pay any and all expenses (including reasonable
counsel fees and expenses) incurred by the Trustee in enforcing any of their
rights under this Agreement. In the event that the Servicer shall fail in any
manner whatsoever to perform or observe any of the Servicing Undertakings when
the same shall be required to be performed, then Dell will itself duly and
punctually perform or observe, or cause to be duly and punctually performed and
observed, such Servicing Undertaking, and it shall not be a condition to the
accrual of the obligation of Dell hereunder to perform or observe any Servicing
Undertaking (or to cause the same to be performed or observed) that the Trustee
shall have first made any request of or demand upon or given any notice to Dell
or the Servicer or their respective successors or assigns, or have instituted
any action or proceedings against Dell or the Servicer or their respective
successors or assigns in respect thereof; provided, however, that nothing
contained herein shall affect any requirement set forth in any Transaction
Document that notice be given or time elapse prior to the giving of a
Termination Notice or the occurrence of a Termination Event or a Trust Early
Amortization Event. The parties hereto agree that nothing contained in this
Agreement shall in any manner expand the obligations of Dell under the
Servicing Undertakings beyond the covenants, agreements and undertakings of the
Servicer under Sections 3.02, 3.04 and 11.05 of the Pooling and Servicing 
Agreement.

         SECTION 3. Obligation Absolute. Dell undertakes that the Servicing
Undertakings will be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of the
Pooling and Servicing Agreement or any document delivered in connection
therewith. The obligations of Dell under this Agreement are independent of the
Servicing Undertakings, and a separate action or actions may be brought and
prosecuted against Dell to enforce this Agreement, irrespective of whether any
action is brought against the Servicer or whether the Servicer is joined in any
such action.

         This Agreement shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the
case may be, if at any time any payment in connection with any of the Servicing
Undertakings is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Trustee upon the
insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any party to any Transaction
Document, all as though payment had not been made.

         SECTION 4. Subrogation. Dell will not, during the Amortization Period
or any Early Amortization Period, Partial Amortization Period or Cure Period, or
if it has knowledge of any event that, with the giving of notice or passage of
time or both, would become an Early Amortization Event or Cure Period, exercise
any rights which it may acquire by way of subrogation under this Agreement, by 
any payment made hereunder or otherwise, until all



                                        2
<PAGE>   3
amounts in connection with the Servicing Undertakings and all other amounts 
payable under this Agreement shall have been paid in full and the Trust shall
have been terminated. If any amount shall be paid to Dell on account of such
subrogation rights at any time prior to the later of (i) the payment in full of
the Servicing Undertakings and all other amounts payable under this Agreement
and (ii) termination of the Trust, such amount shall be held in trust for the
benefit of the Trustee and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee to be
credited and applied upon the Servicing Undertakings, whether matured or
unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Transaction Documents or to be
held by the Trustee as collateral security for any Servicing Undertakings
thereafter existing.

         SECTION 5. Representations and Warranties. Dell hereby represents and
warrants as follows:

              (a) Organization and Good Standing. Dell is a corporation duly
         organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the
         State of Delaware and has, in all material respects, full corporate
         power, authority and legal right to own its properties and conduct its
         business as such properties are presently owned and as such business is
         presently conducted and as is proposed to be conducted, and to execute,
         deliver and perform its obligations under this Agreement.

              (b) Due Qualification. Dell is duly qualified to do business and
         is in good standing as a foreign corporation (or is exempt from such
         requirements), and has obtained all necessary licenses and approvals,
         in each jurisdiction in which the nature of its business requires such
         qualification, except where failure to so qualify or to obtain such
         licenses or approvals would not have a material adverse effect on its
         ability to perform its obligations hereunder.

              (c) Due Authorization. Dell's execution, delivery and performance
         of this Agreement, and the consummation of the transactions
         contemplated by this Agreement, have been duly and validly authorized
         by all necessary corporate action on the part of Dell.

              (d) Binding Obligation. This Agreement constitutes a legal, valid
         and binding obligation of Dell, enforceable against it in accordance
         with its terms, except as such enforceability may be limited by
         applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or other
         similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally, now and hereafter
         in effect, and except as such enforceability may be limited by general
         principles of equity (whether considered in a suit at law or in
         equity).


                                        3
<PAGE>   4
              (e) No Conflict. Dell's execution and delivery of this Agreement,
         its performance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and
         its fulfillment of the terms hereof, do not (i) conflict with or
         violate in any material respects (A) Dell's certificate of
         incorporation or by-laws, (B) any Requirements of Law applicable to
         Dell or (C) any order, writ, judgment, award, injunction or decree
         binding on or affecting Dell or its properties, (ii) conflict with,
         result in any breach of any of the material terms and provisions of, or
         constitute (with or without notice or lapse of time or both) a default
         under, any material indenture, contract, agreement, mortgage, deed of
         trust or other instrument to which it is a party or by which it or its
         properties are bound or (iii) result in or require the creation of any
         Lien with respect to its properties.

              (f) No Proceedings. There are no proceedings or investigations
         pending or, to the best knowledge of Dell, threatened against Dell
         before any Governmental Authority (i) asserting the illegality,
         invalidity or unenforceability, or seeking any determination or ruling
         that would affect the legality, binding effect, validity or
         enforceability, of this Agreement, (ii) seeking to prevent the
         consummation of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement,
         or (iii) seeking any determination or ruling that is reasonably likely
         to materially and adversely affect the financial condition or
         operations of Dell or the performance by it of its obligations under
         this Agreement.

              (g) No Consents. No authorization, consent, license, order or
         approval of or registration or declaration with any Person or
         Governmental Authority is required to be obtained, effected or given by
         Dell in connection with its execution and delivery of this Agreement or
         the performance of its obligations hereunder.

              (h) Financials. Any financial statement, document, book, record or
         report requested or required to be furnished by Dell to the Trustee in
         connection with this Agreement is or was prepared in accordance with
         generally accepted accounting principles and fairly presents or
         presented the financial condition of Dell as of its date or (except as
         otherwise disclosed to the Trustee at such time) as of the date so
         furnished.

              (i) Ownership. As of the date hereof, Dell is the registered and
         beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding shares of the
         capital stock of Dell International Incorporated, which is in turn the
         registered and beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding
         shares of the capital stock of Dell Gen. P. Corp and Dell USA
         Corporation; Dell Gen. P. Corp is the sole general partner of Dell



                                        4
<PAGE>   5
         Marketing L.P., Dell Direct Sales L.P. and the Servicer; Dell USA
         Corporation is the sole limited partner of the Servicer and the
         registered and beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding
         shares of the capital stock of Dell Marketing Corporation and Dell
         Direct Sales Corporation.; and Dell Marketing Corp. is the sole limited
         partner of Dell Marketing L.P and Dell Direct Sales Corporation is the
         sole limited partner of Dell Direct Sales L.P.

         SECTION 6. Covenants. Dell covenants and agrees that, until the
termination of the Trust, Dell will, unless the Trustee shall otherwise consent
in writing:

              (a) Ownership. Be the direct or indirect owner of all of the
         issued and outstanding shares of the capital stock, partnership
         interests or other equity interests of Dell Marketing L.P. and Dell
         Direct Sales L.P., the Servicer and the Transferor and of any successor
         of any of the aforementioned (other than a successor servicer if the
         Servicer is terminated pursuant to the Pooling and Servicing Agreement)
         which may become a party to any of the Transaction Documents.

              (b) No Petition. Not commence or institute any bankruptcy,
         reorganization, arrangement, insolvency or liquidation proceedings, or
         other proceedings under any federal or state bankruptcy or similar law,
         against the Transferor or any successor to the Transferor which becomes
         a party to any of the Transaction Documents.

         SECTION 7. Amendments, Etc. (a) This Agreement may be amended from time
to time by Dell and the Trustee without the consent of any of the Investor
Certificateholders, (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to correct or supplement any
provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or
(iii) to add any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising
under this Agreement which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement; provided that any amendment pursuant to this clause (a) shall not, as
evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel, adversely affect in any material respect the
interests of any Investor Certificateholders.

              (b) This Agreement may be amended from time to time by Dell and
the Trustee, with the consent of a Majority in Interest of each adversely
affected Series, for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any
manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Agreement or of modifying in
any manner the rights of the Certificateholders. The Trustee may request an
Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel with respect to an amendment
entered into pursuant to this clause (b) concerning compliance with the
requirements of this Agreement. Any amendment to be effected pursuant to this
clause (b) shall be deemed to


                                        5
<PAGE>   6
adversely affect all outstanding Series, other than any Series with respect to
which such action shall not, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel (which
counsel shall not be an employee of, or counsel for, Dell, the Servicer or the
Transferor), addressed and delivered to the Trustee, adversely affect the
interests of any Investor Certificateholder of such Series.

              (c) Promptly after the execution of any such amendment or consent
(other than an amendment pursuant to clause (a)), the Trustee shall furnish
written notification of the substance of such amendment to each Investor
Certificateholder.

              (d) It shall not be necessary for the consent of Investor
Certificateholders to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but
it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof. The
manner of obtaining such consents and of evidencing the authorization of the
execution thereof by Investor Certificateholders shall be subject to such
reasonable requirements as the Trustee may prescribe.

         SECTION 8. Addresses for Notices. All notices and other communications
provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing
(including telex and facsimile communication) and shall be personally delivered
or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, or overnight courier or facsimile,
to the intended party at the address or facsimile number of such party set forth
below or at such other address or facsimile number as shall be designated by
such party in a written notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices and
communications shall be effective (a) if personally delivered, when received,
(b) if sent by certified mail, four Business Days after having been deposited in
the mail, postage prepaid, (c) if sent by overnight courier, two Business Days
after having been given to such courier, unless sooner received by the addressee
and (d) if transmitted by facsimile, when sent, upon receipt confirmed by
telephone or electronic means. Notices and communications sent hereunder on a
day that is not a Business Day shall be deemed to have been sent on the
following Business Day.

                  If to Dell,

                  Dell Computer Corporation
                  2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
                  Austin, Texas  78758
                  Tel: (512) 728-3343
                  Fax: (512) 728-0043
                  Attn: Treasurer



                                        6
<PAGE>   7
                  If to the Trustee,

                  Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association
                  Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue
                  Minneapolis, Minnesota  55479
                  Tel: (612) 667-4610
                  Fax: (612) 667-9825
                  Attn: Corporate Trust Department - Tom Wraalstad

         SECTION 9. No Waiver; Remedies. No failure on the part of the Trustee
to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a
waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any
remedies provided by law.

         SECTION 10. Continuing Agreement. This Agreement shall (a) remain in
full force and effect until the later of (i) the payment of all other amounts
payable under this Agreement and the Pooling and Servicing Agreement and (ii)
termination of the Trust, (b) be binding upon Dell, its successors and assigns,
and (c) inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the Trustee and its
respective successors and permitted transferees and assigns.

         SECTION 11. Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE RIGHTS AND
DUTIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ITS
CONFLICT OF LAW PROVISIONS.

         SECTION 12. Submission to Jurisdiction. Each of the parties hereto
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction
of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America
sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any
action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, and each of
the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that all
claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined
in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, such federal court
and (ii) waives the defense of an inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto
agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be
conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or
in any other manner provided by law.

         SECTION 13. Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party hereto waives any right to
a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to enforce or defend any rights
under or relating to this Agreement, any other Transaction Document, or any
amendment, instrument, document or agreement delivered or which may in the
future be delivered in connection herewith or therewith or arising from any
course of conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether verbal of written),



                                        7
<PAGE>   8
actions of any of the parties hereto or any other relationship existing in
connection with this Agreement or any other Transaction Document, and agrees
that any such action or proceeding shall be tried before a court and not before
a jury.

         SECTION 14. Consent to Service of Process. Each party to this Agreement
irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery, certified mail,
postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the
right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner
permitted by law.

         SECTION 15. Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed
in any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original
and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same
Agreement.



                                        8
<PAGE>   9
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Dell has caused this Parent Undertaking Agreement
to be duly executed by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the day and
year first above written.

                                            DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION


                                            By /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                               ------------------------------
                                               Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                               Title: SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND
                                               CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

ACCEPTED:

NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
  as Trustee

By /s/ Michael G. Lugar
  -----------------------------
  Name:  MICHAEL G. LUGAR
  Title: CORPORATE TRUST OFFICE
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.26
<SEQUENCE>13
<DESCRIPTION>CROSS-GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.26
    


                                                                  EXECUTION COPY


                            CROSS-GUARANTEE AGREEMENT

         CROSS-GUARANTEE AGREEMENT, dated as of November 21, 1995, made by DELL
MARKETING L.P., a Texas limited partnership ("Dell Marketing"), DELL DIRECT
SALES L.P., a Texas limited partnership ("Dell Direct") and DELL USA L.P., a
Texas limited partnership (together with any successors pursuant to a merger or
consolidation permitted under Section 8.02 of the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the "Servicer"), in favor of Norwest Bank
Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (the "Trustee") on behalf of the
Certificateholders.

         WHEREAS, Dell Marketing and Dell Receivables L.P., as Purchaser (the
"Transferor"), have entered into a Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of
November 21, 1995; and

         WHEREAS, Dell Direct and the Transferor have entered into a Receivables
Purchase Agreement dated as of November 21, 1995; and

         WHEREAS, the Servicer, the Transferor and the Trustee have entered into
a Pooling and Servicing Agreement dated as of November 21, 1995 (said Agreement,
as it may hereafter be modified from time to time, the "Pooling and Servicing
Agreement"); and

         WHEREAS, it is a condition precedent to the transfer of the Receivables
to the Trust and the issuance of the Certificates under the Pooling and
Servicing Agreement that Dell Marketing, Dell Direct and the Servicer shall have
executed and delivered this Agreement and that any future Originator shall be
deemed to enter into this Agreement and agree to the terms hereof (Dell
Marketing, Dell Direct and any future Originators are each referred to herein as
an "Originator");

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and in order to induce
Investor Certificateholders to make purchases of Certificates and to fund
Increases, each Originator and the Servicer hereby agree as follows:

         SECTION 1. Definitions. Capitalized terms used herein but not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Pooling and Servicing
Agreement. In addition, the term "Agreement" shall mean this Cross-Guarantee
Agreement, as the same may from time to time be amended, supplemented or
otherwise modified.
<PAGE>   2
         SECTION 2. Unconditional Undertaking. Each Originator and the Servicer
each hereby unconditionally and irrevocably undertakes and agrees with and for
the benefit of the Trustee to cause the due and punctual performance and
observance by the other parties hereto, and their respective successors and
assigns, of all of the terms, covenants, conditions, agreements and undertakings
on the part of each such party to be performed or observed by it under the
Transaction Documents in accordance with the terms thereof, including the
punctual payment when due of all obligations now or hereafter existing under the
Transaction Documents, whether for indemnification payments, fees, expenses or
otherwise (such terms, covenants, conditions, agreement, undertakings and other
obligations under the Transaction Documents being the "Undertakings"). Each
Originator and the Servicer agrees to pay any and all expenses (including
reasonable counsel fees and expenses) incurred by the Trustee in enforcing any
rights under this Agreement. In the event that any Originator or the Servicer
shall fail in any manner whatsoever to perform or observe any of the
Undertakings when the same shall be required to be performed or observed under
the Transaction Documents then any other Originator or the Servicer, as
applicable, will itself duly and punctually perform or observe, or cause to be
duly and punctually performed and observed, such Undertaking, and it shall not
be a condition to the accrual of the obligation of any Originator or the
Servicer, as applicable, hereunder to perform or observe any Undertaking (or to
cause the same to be performed or observed) that the Trustee shall have first
made any request of or demand upon or given any notice to any Originator or the
Servicer, as applicable, or their respective successors or assigns, or have
instituted any action or proceedings against any Originator or the Servicer, as
applicable, or their respective successors or assigns in respect thereof;
provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall affect any requirement
set forth in any Transaction Document that notice be given or time elapse prior
to the occurrence of a Termination Event or a Trust Early Amortization Event.

         SECTION 3. Obligation Absolute. Each Originator and the Servicer
undertakes that the Undertakings will be performed or paid strictly in
accordance with the terms of the Transaction Documents or any other document
delivered in connection therewith.

         This Agreement shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the
case may be, if at any time any payment in connection with any of the
Undertakings is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by the Trustee upon the
insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Originator or the Servicer, all
as though payment had not been made.

         SECTION 4. Subrogation. Each Originator and the Servicer each agrees
that, during the Amortization Period or any Early Amortization Period, Partial
Amortization Period or Cure Period, or if it has knowledge of any event that,
with the giving of notice or

                                        2
<PAGE>   3
passage of time or both, would become an Early Amortization Event or Cure
Period, it will not exercise any rights which it may acquire by way of
subrogation under this Agreement, by any payment made hereunder or otherwise,
until all the Undertakings and all other amounts payable under this Agreement
shall have been paid in full and the Trust shall have been terminated. If any
amount shall be paid to any Originator or the Servicer on account of such
subrogation rights at any time prior to the later of (i) the payment in full of
the Undertakings and all other amounts payable under this Agreement and (ii)
termination of the Trust, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of
the Trustee and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee to be credited and
applied upon the Undertakings, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with
the terms of the Transaction Documents or to be held by the Trustee as
collateral security for any Undertakings thereafter existing.

         SECTION 5. Amendments, Etc. (a) This Agreement may be amended from time
to time by each Originator and the Servicer without the consent of any of the
Investor Certificateholders, (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to correct or
supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other
provision herein or (iii) to add any other provisions with respect to matters or
questions arising under this Agreement which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement; provided that any amendment pursuant to this
clause (a) shall not, as evidenced by an Opinion of Counsel, adversely affect in
any material respect the interests of any Investor Certificateholders.

              (b) This Agreement may be amended from time to time by each
Originator and the Servicer, with the consent of a Majority in Interest of each
adversely affected Series, for the purpose of adding any provisions to or
changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Agreement or
of modifying in any manner the rights of the Certificateholders. The Trustee may
request an Officer's Certificate and Opinion of Counsel with respect to an
amendment entered into pursuant to this clause (b) concerning compliance with
the requirements of this Agreement. Any amendment to be effected pursuant to
this clause (b) shall be deemed to adversely affect all outstanding Series,
other than any Series with respect to which such action shall not, as evidenced
by an Opinion of Counsel (which counsel shall not be an employee of, or counsel
for, Dell, the Servicer or the Transferor), addressed and delivered to the
Trustee, adversely affect the interests of any Investor Certificateholder of
such Series.

              (c) Promptly after the execution of any such amendment or consent
(other than an amendment pursuant to clause (a)), the Trustee shall furnish
written notification of the substance of such amendment to each Investor
Certificateholder.

              (d) It shall not be necessary for the consent of Investor
Certificateholders to approve the particular form of any

                                        3
<PAGE>   4
proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the
substance thereof. The manner of obtaining such consents and of evidencing the
authorization of the execution thereof by Investor Certificateholders shall be
subject to such reasonable requirements as the Trustee may prescribe.

         SECTION 6. Addresses for Notices. All notices and other communications
provided for hereunder shall, unless otherwise stated herein, be in writing
(including telex and facsimile communication) and shall be personally delivered
or sent by certified mail, postage prepaid, or overnight courier or facsimile,
to the intended party at the address or facsimile number of such party set forth
below or at such other address or facsimile number as shall be designated by
such party in a written notice to the other parties hereto. All such notices and
communications shall be effective (a) if personally delivered, when received,
(b) if sent by certified mail, four Business Days after having been deposited in
the mail, postage prepaid, (c) if sent by overnight courier, two Business Days
after having been given to such courier, unless sooner received by the addressee
and (d) if transmitted by facsimile, when sent, upon receipt confirmed by
telephone or electronic means. Notices and communications sent hereunder on a
day that is not a Business Day shall be deemed to have been sent on the
following Business Day.

                  If to Dell Marketing,

                  Dell Marketing L.P.
                  2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
                  Austin, Texas  78758
                  Tel: (512) 728-3343
                  Fax: (512) 728-0043
                  Attn: Treasurer

                  If to Dell Direct,

                  Dell Direct Sales L.P.
                  2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
                  Austin, Texas  78758
                  Tel: (512) 728-3343
                  Fax: (512) 728-0043
                  Attn: Treasurer

                  If to the Servicer,

                  Dell USA L.P.
                  2214 West Braker Lane, Suite D
                  Austin, Texas  78758
                  Tel: (512) 728-3343
                  Fax: (512) 728-0043
                  Attn: Treasurer


                                        4
<PAGE>   5

                  If to the Trustee,

                  Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association
                  Sixth Street and Marquette Avenue
                  Minneapolis, Minnesota  55479
                  Tel: (612) 667-4610
                  Fax: (612) 667-9825
                  Attn: Corporate Trust Department - Tom Wraalstad

         SECTION 7. No Waiver; Remedies. No failure on the part of the Trustee
to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a
waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder
preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other
right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any
remedies provided by law.

         SECTION 8. Continuing Agreement. This Agreement shall (a) remain in
full force and effect until the later of (i) the payment of all amounts payable
under this Agreement and the Pooling and Servicing Agreement and (ii)
termination of the Trust, (b) be binding upon each Originator and the Servicer
and their respective successors and assigns, and (c) inure to the benefit of,
and be enforceable by, the Trustee and its respective successors and permitted
transferees and assigns.

         SECTION 9. Governing Law. THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING THE RIGHTS AND
DUTIES OF THE PARTIES HERETO, SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE
WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REFERENCE TO ITS
CONFLICT OF LAW PROVISIONS.

         SECTION 10. Submission to Jurisdiction. Each of the parties hereto
hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction
of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America
sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any
action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, and each of
the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agrees that all
claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined
in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, such federal court
and (ii) waives the defense of an inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto
agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be
conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or
in any other manner provided by law.

         SECTION 11. Waiver of Jury Trial. Each party hereto waives any right to
a trial by jury in any action or proceeding to enforce or defend any rights
under or relating to this Agreement, any other Transaction Document, or any
amendment, instrument, document or agreement delivered or which may in the
future be delivered in connection herewith or therewith or arising from any
course of


                                        5
<PAGE>   6
conduct, course of dealing, statements (whether verbal of written), actions of
any of the parties hereto existing in connection with this Agreement or any
other Transaction Document, and agrees that any such action or proceeding shall
be tried before a court and not before a jury.

         SECTION 12. Consent to Service of Process. Each party to this Agreement
irrevocably consents to service of process by personal delivery, certified mail,
postage prepaid or overnight courier. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the
right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner
permitted by law.

         SECTION 13. Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed
in any number of counterparts and by the different parties hereto in separate
counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original
and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same
Agreement.

                                        6
<PAGE>   7
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of Dell Marketing, Dell Direct and the
Servicer has caused this Cross-Guarantee Agreement to be duly executed by its
officer thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.

                                               DELL MARKETING L.P.
                                               By DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                                 as its general partner

                                               By /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                                 Title: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

                                               DELL DIRECT SALES L.P.
                                               By DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                                 as its general partner

                                               By /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                                 Title: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

                                               DELL USA L.P.
                                               By DELL GEN. P. CORP.,
                                                 as its general partner

                                               By /s/ Thomas J. Meredith
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Name:  THOMAS J. MEREDITH
                                                 Title: CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

ACCEPTED:

NORWEST BANK MINNESOTA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
  as Trustee

By /s/ Michael G. Lugar
  ------------------------------
  Name:  MICHAEL G. LUGAR
  Title: CORPORATE TRUST OFFICER


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                      EXHIBIT 11


                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
                 STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS
                      (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                      -------------------------------------
                                                      JANUARY 28,  JANUARY 29,  JANUARY 30,
                                                         1996         1995         1994
                                                      -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>          <C>
Primary earnings per common share:

Calculation of weighted average shares(a):
  Weighted average shares of Common Stock
    outstanding                                           90.0         77.3         74.7
  Weighted average shares of common stock
    equivalents, utilizing the treasury stock method       7.1          5.8           --
                                                         -----        -----       ------
  Weighted average shares outstanding                     97.1         83.1         74.7
                                                         =====        =====       ======

Earnings:
  Net income (loss) available to common stockholders     $ 260        $ 140       $  (40)
                                                         =====        =====       ======

Earnings (loss) per common share (a)(b)                  $2.67        $1.69       $(0.53)
                                                         =====        =====       ======

Fully diluted earnings per common share:

Calculation of weighted average shares(a):
  Weighted average shares of Common Stock
    outstanding                                           90.0         77.3           --
  Weighted average shares of common stock
    equivalents, utilizing the treasury stock method       6.8          6.8           --
  Assumed conversion of preferred stock                    1.9(c)      10.5           --
                                                         -----        -----       ------
  Weighted average shares outstanding                     98.7         94.6           --
                                                         =====        =====       ======

Earnings:
  Net income (loss) available to common stockholders     $ 260        $ 140       $   --
  Add: preferred dividends                                   1(d)         9           --
                                                         -----        -----       ------
  Adjusted net income (loss) available to common
    stockholders                                         $ 261        $ 149       $   --
                                                         =====        =====       ======

Earnings (loss) per common share (a)(b)                  $2.65        $1.58       $   --(e)
                                                         =====        =====       ======
</TABLE>
    

   
(a)  All share and per share inormation has been retroactively restated to
     reflect the two-for-one split of the Common Stock in October 1995. See 
     Note 8 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
    

   
(b)  Earnings (loss) per common share was calculated using the underlying data 
     in thousands.
    

   
(c)  Assumes conversion, at the beginning of fiscal 1996, of the 60,000 shares 
     of outstanding Convertible Preferred Stock and assumes conversion of the
     remaining Convertible Preferred Stock (those shares which were converted
     in March 1995) for the period from the beginning of fiscal 1996 to the
     actual conversion date.
    

   
(d)  Preferred dividends are exclusive of the conversion premium and expenses of
     the conversion offer.
    

   
(e)  Computation of fully diluted earnings per share is not shown since the
     effect of certain potentially dilutive securities would be antidilutive.
    

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>15
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21


                           DELL COMPUTER CORPORATION
                              List of Subsidiaries

   
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 Jurisdiction of
Name                                                              Organization
- ----                                                              ------------
<S>                                                              <C>
Computer Direct Sdn.                                               Maylaysia
Dell Catalog Sales Corporation                                     Delaware
Dell Catalog Sales L.P.                                            Texas
Dell Computadores do Brasil LTDA.                                  Brazil
Dell Computer (Pty) Ltd                                            South Africa
Dell Computer AB                                                   Sweden
Dell Computer AS                                                   Denmark
Dell Computer Asia LTD.                                            Hong Kong
Dell Computer Asia Pte. Ltd.                                       Singapore
Dell Computer BV                                                   Netherlands
Dell Computer BV                                                   Norway
Dell Computer Corporation                                          Canada
Dell Computer Corporation                                          Japan
Dell Computer Corporation                                          South Korea
Dell Computer Corporation Limited                                  United Kingdom
Dell Computer Corporation Ltd.                                     Thailand
Dell Computer de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.                              Mexico
Dell Computer Ges.m.b.H.                                           Germany
Dell Computer GmbH                                                 Austria
Dell Computer Holdings (Europe) B.V.                               Netherlands
Dell Computer Holdings Corp.                                       Delaware
Dell Computer Holdings L.P.                                        Texas
Dell Computer Limited                                              New Zealand
Dell Computer NV                                                   Belgium
Dell Computer OY                                                   Finland
Dell Computer Poland, Sp. Z.O.O.                                   Poland
Dell Computer PTY. LTD.                                            Australia
Dell Computer S.A.                                                 France
Dell Computer SA                                                   Switzerland
Dell Computer Spain, S.A.                                          Spain
Dell Computer sro                                                  Czech Republic
Dell Computer, Limited                                             Ireland
Dell Direct                                                        Ireland
Dell Direct Sales Corporation                                      Delaware
Dell Direct Sales L.P.                                             Texas
Dell Eastern Europe Corporation                                    Delaware
Dell Export Sales Corporation                                      Barbados
</TABLE>
    

<PAGE>   2
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      Jurisidiction of
Name                                                  Organization
- ----                                                  ----------------
<S>                                                   <C>
Dell Funding Corporation                              Delaware
Dell Gen. P. Corp                                     Delaware
Dell International Incorporated                       Delaware
Dell Marketing Corporation                            Delaware
Dell Marketing L.P.                                   Texas
Dell Products (Asia) BV                               Netherlands
Dell Products (Europe) B.V.                           Netherlands
Dell Products                                         Ireland
Dell Products Corporation                             Delaware
Dell Products L.P.                                    Texas
Dell Quebec Inc.                                      Quebec
Dell Receivables Gen. P. Corp                         Delaware
Dell Receivables L.P.                                 Texas
Dell Research                                         Ireland
Dell Trade Receivables 1993 Corporation               Delaware
Dell USA Corporation                                  Delaware
Dell USA L.P.                                         Texas
Dell World Trade L.P.                                 Texas
DellWare Direct L.P.                                  Texas
</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>16
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF PRICE WATERHOUSE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
   
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23
    


   
                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
    


   
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-24621, 33-54577, 33-31812 and 33-63273) of
Dell Computer Corporation of our report dated February 19, 1996 appearing on
page 25 of this Form 10-K.
    


   
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
    


   
Austin, Texas
March 25, 1996
    

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>17
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM DELL
COMPUTER CORPORATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED JANUARY
28, 1996, AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JAN-28-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               JAN-28-1996
<CASH>                                              55
<SECURITIES>                                       591
<RECEIVABLES>                                      755
<ALLOWANCES>                                        29
<INVENTORY>                                        429
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 1,957
<PP&E>                                             292
<DEPRECIATION>                                     113
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                   2,148
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                              939
<BONDS>                                            113
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          6
<COMMON>                                           430
<OTHER-SE>                                         537
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                     2,148
<SALES>                                          5,296
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 5,296
<CGS>                                            4,229
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    4,229
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                    95
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    13
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                  15
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                    383
<INCOME-TAX>                                       111
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                                272
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                       272
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     2.67
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     2.65
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
