-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 LFbWr9tloti8WAvU5FPkCbvA2WV1E2aoPdAGhmArEI/laFLzfRxRl+K5ZrD7zelv
 xZHXmrsRb6FAGNjeWNSciQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001012870-99-002992.txt : 19990826
<SEC-HEADER>0001012870-99-002992.hdr.sgml : 19990826
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001012870-99-002992
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		5
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19990702
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990825

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000354952
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES [3572]
		IRS NUMBER:				942612933
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0628

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11403
		FILM NUMBER:		99699528

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		920 DISC DR
		CITY:			SCOTTS VALLEY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95066
		BUSINESS PHONE:		8314386550

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		920 DISC DRIVE
		CITY:			SCOTTS VALLEY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95066
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K405
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                               ----------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                               ----------------

(Mark One)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

                    For the fiscal year ended July 2, 1999

                                      OR

[_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    For the transition period from       to

                         Commission File No. 001-11403

                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                               ----------------

<TABLE>
<S>                                                <C>
                  Delaware                              94-2612933
       (State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
        incorporation or organization)             Identification Number)
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<S>                                                       <C>
               920 Disc Drive
        Scotts Valley, California                           95067
   (Address of principal executive offices)               (Zip Code)
</TABLE>

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (831) 438-6550

                               ----------------

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Name of each exchange
             Title of each class                            on which registered
             -------------------                           ---------------------
<S>                                            <C>
   Common Stock, par value $.01 per share                 New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     None

   Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days: YES [X] NO

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant, based upon the closing price of Common Stock on July 2, 1999
as reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was approximately $5.634 billion.
Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by each person
who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that
such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.

   The number of outstanding shares of the registrant's Common Stock on July
2, 1999 was 228,717,889.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement") are incorporated by reference to Part III
of this form 10-K Report.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

                                     PART I

   The information contained in this report includes forward-looking
statements, based on current expectations, that involve risks and uncertainties
which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in
the forward-looking statements. Various important factors known to Seagate
Technology, Inc. that could cause such material differences are identified
below in Part I, Item 1 of this Report and in the "Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in Part II, Item 7
of this Report.

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

General

   Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company" or "Seagate") designs, manufactures
and markets products for storage, retrieval and management of data on computer
and data communications systems. These products include disc drives and disc
drive components, tape drives and software.

   The Company designs, manufactures and markets a broad line of rigid magnetic
disc drives for use in computer systems ranging from desktop personal computers
to workstations and supercomputers as well as in multimedia applications. The
Company's products currently include rigid disc drive models in the 3.5 inch
form factor with capacities ranging from 2 gigabytes ("GB") to 50 GB. The
Company sells its products to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") for
inclusion in their computer systems or subsystems, and to or through
distributors, resellers, dealers, system integrators and retailers. The Company
has pursued a strategy of vertical integration and accordingly designs and
manufactures rigid disc drive components including recording heads, discs, disc
substrates, and motors. It also assembles certain of the key subassemblies for
use in its products including printed circuit board and head stack assemblies.
The Company's products are currently manufactured offshore with limited
production in the United States.

   In addition to its core product line of rigid disc drives and related
components, the Company has broadened its strategy to more fully address the
markets for storage, retrieval and management of data. In line with this
broadened strategy, the Company has made the following investments:

   In July 1994, the Company began investing in Dragon Systems, Inc., a
developer of speech and language technology, including speech recognition
software.

   In December 1994, the Company acquired Applied Magnetics Corporation's tape
head subsidiary, a manufacturer of magnetic recording heads for tape drives.

   In February 1996, The Company added tape drives to its product line as a
result of its merger with Conner Peripherals, Inc. ("Conner").

   In June 1997, the Company began investing in Gadzoox Networks, Inc., a
manufacturer of Fibre Channel based storage network connectivity products.

   In August 1997, the Company acquired Quinta Corporation, a developer of
optically assisted Winchester disc drives.

   In April 1999, the Company invested in iCompression, a developer of real
time MPEG-2 video and audio compression technology.

   The Company has also invested in, and currently intends to continue
investigating opportunities to invest in software businesses. See "Seagate
Software, Inc."

   The Company anticipates that its broadened strategy may include additional
acquisitions of, investments in and strategic alliances with complementary
businesses, products and technologies to enable lower cost per

                                       1
<PAGE>

megabyte, faster time to market, increased capacity, and better performance
characteristics for its products. The Company's strategy includes acquiring
companies that possess technology and development personnel which provide long-
term growth potential to the Company's business.

   In connection with the Company's broadened strategy, two new organizations
were formed to specifically address new market opportunities. In April 1999 the
Company formed a Consumer Solutions organization. The group will work with
Seagate's product sites to deliver innovative solutions for storage intensive
consumer applications by combining the Company's expertise in storage
technology with the development of core competencies and intellectual
properties in audio/visual ("A/V") recording, home networking, satellite and
cable communications. In May 1999 the Company announced the establishment of
its Intelligent Storage Platforms group, an organization which will leverage
the Company's leadership in network and server storage to deliver innovative
solutions for new network computing applications. These solutions will combine
hardware, software and services to provide new products for the Company's
existing OEM and strategic distributor customer base and address the needs of
emerging markets for storage and storage-related applications.

   Additionally, to drive the development of next generation storage
applications throughout the industry, in April 1999 the Company announced the
formation of Seagate Technology Investments, Inc. This subsidiary, acting as a
venture fund, will provide seed capital and first round financing to software,
services and hardware companies creating and developing complementary
technologies in storage-intensive applications. Seagate intends to invest side-
by-side with venture capital investment firms.

Rigid Disc Drive Technology

   Magnetic disc drives are used in computer systems to record, store and
retrieve digital information. Most computer applications require access to a
greater volume of data than can economically be stored in the random access
memory of the computer's central processing unit (commonly known as
"semiconductor" memory). This information can be stored on a variety of storage
devices, including rigid disc drives, both fixed and removable, flexible disc
drives, magnetic tape drives, optical disc drives and semiconductor memory.
Rigid disc drives provide access to large volumes of information faster than
optical disc drives, flexible disc drives or magnetic tape drives and at
substantially lower cost than high-speed semiconductor memory.

   Although products vary, all rigid disc drives incorporate the same basic
technology. One or more rigid discs are attached to a spindle assembly that
rotates the discs at a high constant speed around a hub. The discs (also known
as recording media or disc media) are the components on which data is stored
and from which it is retrieved. Each disc typically consists of a substrate of
finely machined aluminum or glass with a magnetic layer of a "thin-film"
metallic material.

   Rigid disc drive performance is commonly measured by five key
characteristics: average seek time (commonly expressed in milliseconds), which
is the time needed to position the heads over a selected track on the disc
surface; media data transfer rate (commonly expressed in megabytes per second),
which is the rate at which data is transferred to and from the disc; storage
capacity (commonly expressed in megabytes or gigabytes), which is the amount of
data that can be stored on the disc; spindle rotation speed (commonly expressed
in revolutions per minute), which has an effect on speed of access to data; and
interface transfer rate (commonly expressed in megabytes per second), which is
the rate at which data moves between the disc drive and the computer
controller.

   Read/write heads, mounted on an arm assembly similar in concept to that of a
record player, fly extremely close to each disc surface and record data on and
retrieve it from concentric tracks in the magnetic layers of the rotating
discs.

   Upon instructions from the drive's electronic circuitry, a head positioning
mechanism (an "actuator") guides the heads to the selected track of a disc
where the data will be recorded or retrieved. The disc drive

                                       2
<PAGE>

communicates with the host computer through an internal controller. Disc drive
manufacturers may use one or more of several industry standard interfaces, such
as SCSI (Small Computer System Interface), ATA (Advanced Technology
Architecture), and FC--AL (Fibre Channel--Arbitrated Loop).

   Areal density is a measure of storage capacity per square inch on the
recording surface of a disc. It represents the number of bits of information on
a linear inch of the recording track (specified in bits per inch or bpi)
multiplied by the number of recording tracks on a radial inch of the disc.
Current areal densities are sufficient to meet the requirements of most
applications today. However, the long-term demand for increased drive
capacities is expected to increase at an accelerating rate since sound and
moving pictures require many times the storage capacity of simple text. The
Company has and continues to aggressively pursue a range of technologies to
increase areal densities across the entire range of its products not only to
increase drive capacities, but to allow the elimination of components at a
stated capacity as areal density increases, thus reducing costs. As a result,
Seagate drives today use advanced signal processing techniques such as PRML
(Partial Response Maximum Likelihood) read/write channels, advanced servo
systems, higher precision mechanics and advanced head technologies. To attain
greater areal densities, the Company currently incorporates magneto-resistive
("MR") heads into its disc drives and is in the process of transitioning to
giant magneto-resistive ("GMR") heads. MR and GMR heads have discrete read and
write structures which take advantage of special magnetic properties in certain
metals to achieve significantly higher storage capacities. There can be no
assurance that the Company's GMR head development effort will continue to be
successful. See "Product Development."

Market Overview

   Rigid disc drives are used in a broad range of computer systems as well as
for multimedia applications. The Company defines the major computer system
markets to include mobile computers, desktop personal computers, workstation
systems and server/multi-user systems. Users of computer systems are
increasingly demanding additional data storage capacity with higher performance
in order to (i) use more sophisticated applications software, including
database management, CAD/CAM/CAE, desktop publishing, video editing and
enhanced graphics applications and (ii) operate in multi-user, multitasking and
multimedia environments. There is also a large and growing market for ultra-low
cost personal computers. Additionally, there is a sizable market for rigid disc
drives in the existing installed base of computer systems, some of which
require additional storage capacity. These requirements for storage upgrades
can be served through authorized distribution channels. There is also an
emerging market for consumer appliances (Digital video recorders, sub-$500 PCs,
Internet appliances and set-top boxes). This market requires mainstream to low
performance at low cost.

 Personal Computers--Desktop and Mobile

   Desktop and portable personal computers are used in a number of
environments, ranging from homes to businesses and multi-user networks.
Software applications are primarily word processing, spreadsheet, desktop
publishing, database management, multimedia, Internet caching, digital photos,
games, audio/video applications and other related applications. The Company
believes the minimum storage requirements in the past year for entry-level
personal computers were generally 2 GB to 4.3 GB of formatted capacity with
seek times in the sub-11 millisecond ("msec") range. The entry level capacities
continue to increase. In addition, users of personal computers have become
increasingly price sensitive. The Company's objective for the personal computer
market is to design drives for high-volume, low-cost manufacturing.

   Seagate divides the desktop market into three segments: entry-level,
mainstream and high performance. The Company designs and manufactures drives
for each of these segments, as follows: U-series drives for the entry level
market segment, Medalist and Barracuda ATA drives for the mainstream market
segments and Barracuda ATA drives for the high performance segment.

   Smaller footprint systems, such as mobile, laptop, notebook and
ultraportable computers require rigid disc drives in form factors of less than
3.5 inches that emphasize durability and low power consumption in addition to
capacity and performance characteristics found in their desktop functional
equivalents. Personal digital

                                       3
<PAGE>

assistants, hand-held and pen-based computers may use 1.8 inch or 2.5 inch hard
disc drives or flash memory such as a PCMCIA card for additional memory. These
mobile applications also emphasize low power consumption as well as very high
degrees of durability. The Company discontinued production of disc drives in
form factors of less than 3.5 inches in January 1998. However, the Company is
continuing research and development in this area and intends to reenter this
market at a future date.

 Workstation Systems

   Workstation systems include high performance microcomputers, technical
workstations, servers and minicomputers. Applications are characterized by
compute-intensive and data-intensive solutions, such as CAD/CAM/CAE, network
management, larger database management systems, scientific applications and
small to medium-sized business applications such as materials requirement
planning, payroll, general ledger systems and related management reports.
Workstation systems typically require rigid disc drive storage capacities of
9 GB and greater per drive, average seek times of 8 msec or less and rotation
speeds of 7,200 rpm to 10,000 rpm. Due to the leading edge characteristics
required by end-users of workstation systems, manufacturers of such systems
emphasize performance as well as price as the key selling points.

 Server/Multi-user Systems

   Large systems include mainframes and supercomputers. Typical applications
are medium and large business management systems, transaction processing,
parallel processing and other applications requiring intensive data
manipulation.

   Users of these systems generally require capacities of 9 GB and greater per
drive with average seek times of 8 msec or less and rotation speeds of 7,200
rpm to 10,000 rpm. End-users of large systems tend to be less concerned than
users of smaller systems with the size, weight, power consumption and absolute
cost of the drive. As with workstation systems, disc drive products are
typically designed into these systems by the OEM with emphasis on performance,
reliability and capacity. In this market segment, data storage subsystems are
used containing large numbers of disc drives. Because data integrity is
paramount, high device reliability and maintainability are key features.
Mainframe and supercomputer systems also benefit from very high data transfer
rates (up to ten times that in small computer systems).

   Users of these systems may also utilize redundant arrays of inexpensive disc
drives ("RAID"). A RAID combines multiple small drives into an array of disc
drives which yield performance equal to or exceeding a single high performance
drive. The array of drives appears to the computer as a single storage drive.

Products

 Rigid Disc Drives

   The Company produces a broad line of rigid disc drives in the 3.5 inch form
factor with capacities ranging from 2 GB to 50 GB. The Company provides more
than one product at some capacity points and differentiates products on a
price/performance and form factor basis. The Company believes that its broad
range of rigid disc drives is particularly appealing to customers, such as
large OEMs, which require a wide variety of drive capacities, performance
levels and interfaces. Producing for several market segments also broadens the
Company's customer base and reduces the Company's reliance on any one segment
of the computer market. The Company continues to devote its resources to
developing products with industry leading performance characteristics and to
being among the first to introduce such products to market. The Company
continuously seeks to enhance its market presence in emerging segments of the
rigid disc drive market by drawing on its established capabilities in high-
volume, low-cost production. The Company believes it offers the broadest range
of disc storage products available. See "Product Development".

 Mobile Computing

   In January 1998, the Company discontinued production of 2.5 inch disc drives
for the mobile computer market due to intense competition resulting in a
substantial loss of market share. The design center for mobile

                                       4
<PAGE>

drives in San Jose, California was closed and relocated to Longmont, Colorado.
The Company is continuing research and development for mobile products and
intends to reenter this market at a future date.

 Desktop Computing

   In fiscal 1999, which ended on July 2, 1999, the Company continued to
introduce new disc drive products for the desktop computing market. Seagate's
desktop products are all industry standard 3.5 inch form factor, 1 inch high
drives.

   In June 1998, Seagate announced the U2 to address the entry-level personal
computer ("PC") market and began volume production in the first fiscal quarter
of 1999. This drive provides 2.1 GB of storage capacity at 4500 rpm, with an
Ultra ATA interface. The Company also produces a two disc, 4 GB version of the
U2.

   In the first fiscal quarter of 1999, Seagate began production of the
Medalist 10240 family of products for entry and mainstream PC markets. This
product family featured a rotation speed of 5400 rpm, low acoustics, Ultra ATA
interface, and Seagate's exclusive SeaShield to protect the PCB from handling
and electrostatic damage. Products included the 10.2 GB Medalist 10240, the 8.6
GB Medalist 8641, the 6.5 GB Medalist 6531, the 3.2 GB Medalist 3221, and the
2.5 GB Medalist 2510.

   In the second fiscal quarter of 1999, Seagate began volume production of the
Medalist 13640 family of products for the entry and mainstream desktop market
segments. This product family had similar features to the Medalist 10240
family, but significantly better performance and higher capacities. Products
included the 13.6 GB Medalist 13640, the 10.2 GB Medalist 10230, the 6.4 GB
Medalist 6422, and the 3.2 GB Medalist 3210.

   In the third fiscal quarter of 1999, Seagate began volume production of the
Medalist 17240 family of products for the mainstream PC market segment. This
product family features a rotation speed of 5400 rpm, low acoustics, Ultra ATA
interface, and Seagate's exclusive expanded SeaShield System to protect the
drive and ease installation. Products include the 17.2 GB Medalist 17240, the
13.0 GB Medalist 13030, the 8.4 GB Medalist 8420, and the 4.3 GB Medalist 4310.

   In the third fiscal quarter of 1999, Seagate announced two new product
families: the Medalist 17242 family for mainstream and high performance desktop
PCs, and the U4 for the entry-class desktop segment. Both families commenced
volume production in the fourth fiscal quarter of 1999.

   The Medalist 17242 family features 5400 rpm, numerous performance
enhancements, low acoustics, Ultra ATA/66 interface, and Seagate's exclusive
expanded SeaShield System. The family includes the 17.2 GB Medalist 17242, the
13.0 GB Medalist 13032, the 8.4 GB Medalist 8422, and the 4.3 GB Medalist 4312.

   The U4 product family of low cost disc drives features 5400 rpm, Ultra
ATA/66 interface, low acoustics, and Seagate's soft SeaShield cover for
additional handling protection. Storage capacities for the U4 products include
8.4 GB, 6.4 GB, 4.3GB, and 2.1 GB.

   In the fourth fiscal quarter of 1999, Seagate announced its new Barracuda
ATA product family for mainstream and high performance desktop market segments,
scheduled for production commencing in the first fiscal quarter of 2000. This
product family features 7200 rpm performance, Ultra ATA/66 interface,
SeaShield, G-Force Protection for Desktop enhancements to increase durability,
and Drive Self Test in the firmware. Products include the 28 GB Barracuda ATA
28040, the 20.4 GB Barracuda ATA 20430, the 13.6 GB Barracuda ATA 13620,
the10.2 GB Barracuda ATA 10220, and the 6.8 GB Barracuda ATA 6810.

 Workstation Systems

   In fiscal year 1999, the Company introduced a new product in the 7,200 rpm
Barracuda family targeted at the Workstation market, the Barracuda 18LP. The
Barracuda 18LP is an 18.2 GB formatted capacity,

                                       5
<PAGE>

mainstream-performance drive in the low-profile form factor. The Barracuda 18LP
is designed to provide a balance of price and performance for the workstation
market. Volume production of the Barracuda 18LP began in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1999.

   In fiscal year 1999, the Company introduced a new product in the 10,000 rpm
Cheetah family targeted at the high performance segment of the Workstation
market, the Cheetah 18LP. The Cheetah 18LP is an 18.2 GB formatted capacity,
high performance drive in the low-profile form factor. Volume production of the
Cheetah 18LP began in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.

 Server/Multi-user Systems

   High-end applications include high-end file servers, minicomputers,
mainframes and supercomputers. The Barracuda 36, a 36.4 GB formatted capacity
drive, is the fourth generation of disc drives in the Barracuda family. The
Barracuda 36 began volume production in the first quarter of fiscal 2000. The
Barracuda 18LP discussed under "Workstation Systems" above, is also used in
server/multi-user systems. In addition, the Company began volume production in
the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999 of the Barracuda 50. This drive has a
formatted capacity of 50 GB and is targeted at the Enterprise Server market
where high capacity is critical.

   In fiscal 1999, the Company announced another generation of the 3.5 inch
Cheetah family, with spindle rotation speeds of 10,000 rpm, formatted
capacities of 18.2 GB and 36.4 GB, and read/seek times of 5.2 msec and 5.7
msec. This drive family is focused on the high performance segment of the
server market. The Cheetah 18LP and the Cheetah 36 are the third generation of
10,000 rpm drives. Volume production of these drives began in the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1999 and first quarter of fiscal 2000, respectively. Both
drives have data transfer rates up to 80 megabytes ("MB") per second with the
Ultra2 SCSI interface or 100 MB per second with the Fibre Channel interface.

   The Barracuda and Cheetah families utilize industry leading technologies
such as MR heads, PRML channels, embedded servo and laser textured media.

 Tape Drives

   Tape drives are peripheral hardware devices which enable low cost storage
and protection of large volumes of data through the use of small tape
cartridges. Computer systems of all types increasingly need dedicated backup
storage peripherals that combine high capacity, high performance, low cost and
reliability. Seagate markets a broad line of Travan, Digital Audio Tape
("DAT"), and Advanced Intelligent Tape ("AIT") drives and autoloaders with
capacities of up to 200 GB for a wide range of backup and removable storage
needs. The Company currently produces backup solutions for market segments from
high performance workstations to midrange servers. The Company offers tape
products through a variety of channels including OEMs, distributors, VARs,
resellers and system integrators. The Company works closely with OEMs to
customize storage solutions that meet their customers' needs.

 Hornet Travan Drives

   To meet the backup requirements of small servers and Windows NT
workstations, Seagate's Hornet(R) Travan drives have capacities of up to 20 GB
on a single low-cost removable cartridge. Hornet Travan products are available
with either SCSI or IDE interfaces. To better suit the backup needs of the
small PC server market, Seagate offers the Hornet Travan Network Series (NS)
products with read-while-write technology and hardware data compression. The
Hornet Travan drives are manufactured by Seagate in Singapore.

 Scorpion DAT Drives

   Scorpion(R) DAT drives and autoloaders with capacities of up to 96 GB are
suited for a wide range of platforms including large PC servers and Unix
workstations. Seagate has a long history of producing DAT

                                       6
<PAGE>

drives for this market segment. Recently, Seagate announced the Scorpion 40
DDS-4 drive which offers up to 40 GB of storage with compression on a single
DDS-4 cartridge. The Scorpion DAT drives are manufactured for Seagate by
Matsushita-Kotobuki Electronics Industries, Ltd. ("MKE") in Japan.

 Sidewinder AIT Drives

   Seagate's Sidewinder AIT drives and autoloaders offer high data integrity,
reliability and performance for larger servers and tape libraries. Seagate's
stand alone drive, the Sidewinder 50, offers up to 50 GB of capacity while the
Sidewinder 200 autoloader offers up to 200 GB of storage on four AIT tapes. AIT
offers many performance advantages over competing technologies such as fast
cartridge load and file access times, a thorough self-cleaning head and durable
AME (Advanced Metal Evaporation) media. In addition, Sidewinder drives are
available in both external and compact internal form factors for easy
integration. Sidewinder drives are currently manufactured for Seagate by Sony.

 Linear Tape Open (LTO)

   Seagate, Hewlett-Packard and IBM, created Linear Tape-Open (LTO) technology,
a powerful, scaleable, open tape architecture that is expected to meet the
growing storage demands of midrange to enterprise-class servers with up to 200
GB of data per cartridge. The Company anticipates that in fiscal year 2000 LTO
will be open for licensing to vendors in two formats based on the technology:
Ultrium, a 200 GB product for high- capacity needs and Accelis, a fast-access,
dual-reel implementation that will offer data retrieval in under 10 seconds.

 Other Products

   The Company offers warranty and out-of-warranty repair service to users of
its disc and tape drives. The Company also offers software products directed
towards the client/server and network computing environments. See "Seagate
Software, Inc."

 Seagate Software, Inc.

   Seagate Software develops and markets software products and provides related
services enabling business users and information technology professionals to
store, access and manage enterprise information. Headquartered in Scotts
Valley, California, Seagate Software currently has 32 offices and operations in
17 countries worldwide. Seagate Software is a majority-owned and consolidated
subsidiary of Seagate Technology. As of July 2, 1999, Seagate Technology held
approximately 99.96% of all outstanding shares of Seagate Software. The
remaining shares of Seagate Software are held by current and former employees,
directors and consultants of Seagate Software, Seagate Technology and their
subsidiaries. In addition, options to purchase 3,810,179 shares of Seagate
Software common stock were outstanding as of July 2, 1999.

   Prior to May 28, 1999, Seagate Software was comprised of two operating
groups, the Information Management Group and the Network & Storage Management
Group. Each operating group provides products in distinct segments of the
business software market. The Network & Storage Management Group was
contributed to VERITAS Software Corporation on May 28, 1999 for 69,148,208
shares of VERITAS Software Corporation common stock, or approximately 41.63% of
the outstanding common stock on that date. While a division of Seagate
Software, the Network and Storage Management Group offered network and storage
management software solutions, which focus on the availability component of
enterprise information management by enabling information technology
professionals to manage distributed network resources and to secure and protect
enterprise data. The Network & Storage Management Group's products include
features to copy, store, retrieve, move, protect and schedule retrieval and
release of electronically stored data.

   The Information Management Group's products permit analysis and
interpretation of data in order to make business decisions. An important
component of these products is technology that enables the user to create
reports to present that analysis and interpretation to others. After the
closing of the contribution of the Network & Storage Management Group business
to VERITAS, Seagate Software continues to operate its Information

                                       7
<PAGE>

Management Group business. In fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1999, the Information
Management Group's revenue represented approximately 40% and 41% of Seagate
Software's total revenue, respectively. The Information Management Group offers
a breadth of business software products:

  .  Seagate Crystal Reports for Microsoft BackOffice(TM)--Generates a set of
     top-requested reports to ease systems administration functions for the
     Microsoft BackOffice family of software products.

  .  Seagate Crystal Info(TM)--Provides decision-makers with shared access to
     reporting and analysis capabilities, so users get fast access to data
     without having to interact with the database. Whether using a Web
     browser or Windows, users can schedule, view and analyze reports or
     create multiple views of data to expose trends and provide comparative
     information. This product contains an enterprise-friendly multi-tier
     architecture to lower network traffic and increase user productivity.

  .  Seagate Crystal Reports(TM)--Provides query and report writing functions
     for Windows. A developer and end-user tool, Seagate Crystal Reports
     allows users to access most types of personal computer and structured
     query language data and design a variety of reports and integrate them
     into database applications.

  .  Seagate Holos(R)--Provides multiple views of data to expose trends and
     provides comparative information to focus on key business issues and
     accurately reflect business processes. These applications allow
     enterprises to analyze the increasing volumes of data and guide users to
     the information to improve decision making.

   The Information Management Group also continues to offer network and storage
management products by virtue of ongoing agreements with VERITAS.

Marketing and Customers

   The Company sells its products primarily to OEMs and distributors. OEM
customers incorporate Seagate drives into computer systems for resale. OEMs
either manufacture and assemble computer system components into computer
systems, purchase components to build their systems, or purchase complete
computer systems and integrate the drives and other hardware and software.
Distributors typically sell Seagate disc drives to small OEMs, dealers, system
integrators and other resellers. Certain resellers to which the Company
directly sells its products also resell Seagate drives as part of enhanced
packages (e.g., an add-on kit for a computer or as part of their own
computers). Shipments to OEMs were 65%, 65% and 71% of disc drive revenue in
fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Sales to Compaq Computer Corporation
accounted for approximately 17%, 13% and 11% of the Company's consolidated
revenue in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. No other customer
accounted for 10% or more of consolidated revenue in 1999, 1998 or 1997.

 OEMs

   OEM customers typically enter into purchase agreements with the Company.
These agreements provide for pricing, volume discounts, order lead times,
product support obligations and other terms and conditions, usually for periods
of 12 to 24 months, although product support obligations generally extend
substantially beyond this period. These master agreements typically do not
commit the customer to buy any minimum quantity of products. Deliveries are
scheduled only after receipt of purchase orders. In addition, with limited lead
time, customers may cancel or defer most purchase orders without significant
penalty. Anticipated orders from many of Seagate's customers have in the past
failed to materialize or OEM delivery schedules have been deferred or altered
as a result of changes in their business needs, such as extensive use of just-
in-time warehouse locations. Such order fluctuations and deferrals have had a
material adverse effect on the Company's operations in the past, and there can
be no assurance that the Company will not experience such adverse effects in
the future.

 Distributors

   In the third quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company launched its Distribution
Partnership Program. Under this program, the Company has selected a limited
number of key distributors, predominately in North America with

                                       8
<PAGE>

which it will jointly develop marketing programs targeted at value-added
resellers ("VARs"), resellers and systems integrators. Shipments to these key
distributors are on a consignment basis whereby the Company's inventory held by
these distributors is still owned by the Company and Seagate's revenue
recognition is delayed until the product is utilized by the distributor to fill
an end-user order.

   The Company's distributors outside of North America generally enter into
non-exclusive agreements for the redistribution of the Company's products. They
typically furnish the Company with a non-binding indication of their near-term
requirements and product deliveries are generally scheduled based on a weekly
confirmation by the distributor of its requirements for that week. The
agreements typically provide the distributors with price protection with
respect to their inventory of Seagate drives at the time of a reduction by
Seagate in its selling price for the drives, and also provide limited rights to
return the product.

 Service and Warranty

   Seagate warrants its products against defects in design, materials and
workmanship by the Company generally for one to five years depending upon the
capacity category of the drive, with the higher capacity products being
warranted for the longer periods. During fiscal 1999, the Company began to
relocate its customer service operations in Singapore, Scotland and Costa Mesa,
California to Reynosa, Mexico. The Company's products are refurbished or
repaired at its facilities located in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Singapore,
Malaysia and Mexico.

 Sales Offices

   The Company maintains sales offices throughout the United States and in
Australia, England, France, Germany, Hong Kong, Ireland, Japan, Singapore,
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and the United Kingdom. Foreign sales are
subject to certain controls and restrictions, including, in the case of certain
countries, approval by the office of Export Administration of the United States
Department of Commerce and other United States governmental agencies.

Backlog

   In view of customers' rights to cancel or defer orders with little or no
penalty, the Company believes backlog in the disc drive industry may be
misleading. The Company's backlog includes only those orders for which a
delivery schedule has been specified by the customer. Substantially all orders
shown as backlog at July 2, 1999 were scheduled for delivery within six months.
Because many customers place large orders for delivery throughout the year, and
because of the possibility of customer cancellation of orders or changes in
delivery schedules, the Company's backlog as of any particular date is not
indicative of the Company's potential sales for any succeeding fiscal period.
The Company's order backlog at July 2, 1999 was approximately $862 million
compared with approximately $793 million at July 3, 1998.

Manufacturing

   The Company's business objectives require it to establish manufacturing
capacity in anticipation of market demand. The key elements of the Company's
manufacturing strategy are: high-volume, low-cost assembly and test; vertical
integration in the manufacture of selected components; and establishment and
maintenance of key vendor relationships. The highly competitive disc drive
industry requires that the Company manufacture significant volumes of high-
quality drives at low per unit cost. To do this, the Company must rapidly
achieve high manufacturing yields and obtain uninterrupted access to high-
quality components in required volumes at competitive prices.

   Manufacturing of the Company's rigid disc drives is a complex process,
requiring a "clean room" environment, the assembly of precision components
within narrow tolerances and extensive testing to ensure reliability. The first
step in the manufacturing of a rigid disc drive is the assembly of the actuator
mechanism,

                                       9
<PAGE>

heads, discs, and spindle motor in a housing to form the head-disc assembly
(the "HDA"). The assembly of the HDA involves a combination of manual and
semiautomated processes. After the HDA is assembled, a servo pattern is
magnetically recorded on the disc surfaces. Upon completion, circuit boards are
mated to the HDA and the completed unit is thoroughly tested prior to packaging
and shipment. Final assembly and test operations of the Company's disc drives
take place primarily at facilities located in Singapore, Malaysia, China,
Minnesota and Oklahoma. Subassembly and component operations are performed at
the Company's facilities in Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Minnesota,
California, Northern Ireland and Mexico. In addition, independent entities
manufacture or assemble components for the Company in the United States, Europe
and various Far East countries including Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, China, the
Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand.

   The Company believes that it must continue to develop automated
manufacturing processes in order to remain competitive. In this regard, the
Company selectively evaluates which steps in the manufacturing process would
benefit from automation. There can be no assurance that the Company's efforts
to develop and improve its automated manufacturing processes will be
successful. Any failure of the Company to continue to develop and improve its
automated manufacturing processes could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business.

   The cost, quality and availability of certain components including recording
heads, media, ASICs (application specific integrated circuits), spindle motors,
actuator motors, printed circuit boards and custom semiconductors are critical
to the successful production of disc drives. The Company's design and vertical
integration have allowed it to internally manufacture substantial percentages
of its critical components other than ASICs and motors. The Company's
objectives of vertical integration are to maintain control over component
technology, quality and availability, and to reduce costs. The Company believes
that its strategy of vertical integration gives it an advantage over other disc
drive manufacturers. However, this strategy entails a high level of fixed costs
and requires a high volume of production to be successful. During periods of
decreased production, these high fixed costs in the past have had and in the
future could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of
operations.

   All three primary stages of manufacturing for both MR and GMR recording
heads are carried out at the Company's facilities. These three stages are wafer
production, slider fabrication and head gimbal assembly. While the majority of
its requirements for magnetic recording heads are produced internally, the
Company purchases up to 20% of its heads from third party suppliers to afford
it access to the widest possible head technology available. However, the
Company plans to continue to manufacture the majority of its head requirements
internally. For disc, or media, production the Company purchases aluminum
substrate blanks from third parties mainly in Japan. These blanks are machined,
plated and polished to produce finished substrates at the Company's plants in
California, Mexico and Northern Ireland. The Company's media manufacturing
plants in California and Singapore put these substrates through the
manufacturing processes necessary to deposit the magnetic storage layer, the
protective carbon overcoat and the lubricant as well as to achieve the proper
degree of final surface smoothness and also carry out the quality assurance
activities necessary to deliver finished media to Seagate's disc drive
manufacturing plants. The Company's internal media manufacturing operations
supply the majority of its needs for media but media is also purchased from
third party suppliers located in the U.S. and the Far East. Spindle motors are
sourced principally from outside vendors in the Far East. The Company
participates in the design of all of its ASICs for motor and actuator control.
It designs all or part of many of the other ASICs in the drive such as
interface controllers, read/write channels and pre-amplifiers, and procures
these from third parties. The vast majority of the high-volume surface-mount
printed circuit assemblies are assembled internally. The Company evaluates the
need for second sources for all of its components on a case-by-case basis and,
where it is deemed desirable and feasible to do so, secures multiple sources.
The Company has experienced production delays when unable to obtain sufficient
quantities of certain components or assembly capacity. The Company attempts to
maintain component inventory levels adequate for its short-term needs. However,
an inability to obtain essential components, if prolonged, would adversely
affect the Company's business.

                                       10
<PAGE>

   Because of the significant fixed costs associated with the manufacture of
its products and components and the industry's history of declining prices, the
Company must continue to produce and sell its disc drives in significant
volume, continue to lower manufacturing costs and carefully monitor inventory
levels. Toward these ends, the Company continually evaluates its components and
manufacturing processes as well as the desirability of transferring volume
production of disc drives and related components between facilities, including
transfer overseas to countries where labor costs and other manufacturing costs
are significantly lower than in the U.S., principally Singapore, Thailand,
Malaysia and China. Frequently, transfer of production of a product to a
different facility requires qualification of such new facility by certain of
the Company's OEM customers. There can be no certainty that such changes and
transfers will be implemented on a cost-effective basis without delays or
disruption in the Company's production and without adversely affecting the
Company's results of operations.

   Offshore operations are subject to certain inherent risks, including delays
in transportation, changes in governmental policies, tariffs, import/export
regulations, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates in addition to
geographic limitations on management controls and reporting. There can be no
assurance that the inherent risks of offshore operations will not adversely
effect the Company's future operating results. During fiscal 1998, several Far
East currencies significantly declined in value relative to the U.S. dollar. As
a result during fiscal 1998, the Company was required to mark-to-market a
portion of its foreign currency forward exchange contracts that it had taken
out as a hedge of these currencies and recorded a $76 million charge against
income. As of July 3, 1998, the Company had effectively closed out all of its
foreign currency forward exchange contracts by purchasing offsetting contracts.
During fiscal 1999 the Company temporarily ceased its foreign currency hedging
program and as of July 2, 1999, the Company had no outstanding foreign currency
forward exchange or purchased currency option contracts. See "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--
Disclosures about Market Risk." Certain of the Far East countries in which the
Company operates have experienced political unrest and the Company's operations
have been adversely affected for short periods of time.

Product Development

   The Company's strategy for new products emphasizes developing and
introducing on a timely and cost effective basis products that offer
functionality and performance equal to or better than competitive product
offerings. The rigid disc drive industry is characterized by ongoing, rapid
technological change, relatively short product life cycles and rapidly changing
user needs. The Company believes that its future success will depend upon its
ability to develop, manufacture and market products which meet changing user
needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to changes in technology and
standards on a cost-effective and timely basis. Accordingly, the Company is
committed to the development of new component technologies, new products, and
the continuing evaluation of alternative technologies.

   The Company develops new disc drive products and the processes to produce
them at four locations: Longmont, Colorado; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Shakopee,
Minnesota; and Singapore. Generally speaking, Longmont and Singapore are
responsible for development of 3.5 inch form factor drives intended for desktop
personal computer systems; Oklahoma City is responsible for development of 3.5
inch disc drives with capacities and interfaces intended for use in
minicomputers, supermicrocomputers, workstations and file servers; and Shakopee
is responsible for 3.5 inch products principally intended for use in systems
ranging from workstations and superminicomputers to mainframe and
supercomputers. Development of 2.5 inch form factor drives intended for mobile
personal computers is also conducted in Longmont although the Company does not
currently manufacture such form factors for sale to the marketplace.

   The Company is increasing its focus on research and development and has
realigned its disc drive development process. This structured new product
development process is designed to speed new products to market through
predictable and repeatable methodologies. In 1998 Seagate established a
research facility based in Pittsburgh, PA. The vision of Seagate Research is
dedicated to extending the limits of magnetic and optical recording and
exploring alternative data storage technologies. Seagate also has an Advanced
Concepts program

                                       11
<PAGE>

which focuses the Company's disc drive and component research efforts into
three areas that specialize in developing and staging advanced technologies for
future data storage products. The three areas are recording subsystems
including heads and media, market specific product technology, and technology
focused towards new business opportunities.. The primary charter of Advanced
Concepts is to ensure timely availability of mature component and subsystem
technologies to the Company's product development teams and allow the Company
to leverage and coordinate those technologies across products. With Advanced
Concepts focused on technology staging and a consistent product development
process, the Company is beginning to see significant improvements in delivery
of innovative time-to-market products.

   The Company believes that vertical integration in strategic technologies is
a key competitive advantage to maintaining a leadership position in today's
rapidly changing markets. The Company has focused its component research and
development efforts in four main areas: heads, media, motors and ASICs. The
major emphasis of this research and development effort is higher capacity,
reduced size and power consumption, improved performance and reliability, and
reduced cost.

   The Company's head research and development efforts are focused on
increasing recording densities, reducing the size and mass of the slider,
developing microactuator suspensions and assembly technology for reduced head
size, reducing the cost and increasing the reliability. This research and
development includes substantial effort to develop and manufacture MR and GMR
heads and advanced air bearing sliders for high areal density and small form
factor products. There can be no assurance that the Company's head development
efforts will be successful and a failure of the Company to successfully
manufacture and market products incorporating its advanced head technology in a
timely manner could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business
and results of operations.

   Media research and development is primarily related to achieving higher
areal densities consistent with the efforts undertaken in the head operations
of the Company as well as developing the capability to produce media of reduced
dimensions from those of current main-stream products. These media research and
development efforts are subdivided into several main approaches to achieving
these goals: developing smoother, flatter substrates that permit lower head
flying heights; developing thinner, smaller-diameter substrates to support
development of physically smaller disc drives; developing improved magnetic
storage alloys, overcoat materials and surface lubricants that permit higher
coercivities and improved electromagnetic performance while providing enhanced
wear and reliability performance; and, finally, developing enhanced substrate
and media manufacturing processes that allow the Company to implement the
results of its other developments while increasing the consistency and reducing
the cost of producing high performance magnetic storage media. As a consequence
of these efforts, the Company reviews, on an on-going basis, not only new
versions and smaller size versions of the industry-standard aluminum and glass
substrates but also substrates of alternative materials. The Company
experiments with the elemental content of the storage alloys and overcoat
materials and the sputtering processes used to deposit them. The Company
evaluates different lubricants and pursues variations in the techniques used to
obtain the proper degree of surface smoothness including both mechanical and
other processes. There can be no assurance that the Company's media development
efforts will be successful.

   ASIC development has been and will continue to be focused on optimizing the
product architecture for system performance, cost and reliability. Some
specific areas of focus are reducing the number of parts, reducing power
consumption and increasing areal densities by use of advanced signal processing
techniques.

   The disc drive spindle motor is becoming an increasingly critical component
as disc drive technology continues to increase track density at an accelerating
rate and spindle speeds approach the reliability limits of ball bearings. The
Company's research and development investment in motor technology has made it a
leader in the design of fluid dynamic bearing motors for disc drives. The
Company remains today the only disc drive company shipping these advanced
spindle motors since their introduction over a year ago. The principal areas of
research and development relating to spindle motors are lower power
requirements, reduced noise level, improved reliability and reduced cost. The
motor design and development center is located in Scotts Valley, California.

                                       12
<PAGE>

   Seagate recently embarked on a significant change in its approach to process
development. Consistent with the formation of the Advanced Concepts group in
Development Engineering, the Company has formed an Advanced Manufacturing group
in Manufacturing Engineering. The primary focus is best-in-class operational
performance. This new group will focus the efforts of the process development
groups within the Company on one process capable of building all of the
Company's drives on any of the Company's disc drive assembly lines. In
addition, the group will focus on benchmarking best-in-class performance,
evaluation of new materials and state of the art process control systems. The
Company believes that its future success is linked to its ability to reduce
supply lines, respond to demand changes, and ultimately provide the highest
quality products to its customers.

   In fiscal year 1999, the Company formed its Consumer Solutions organization.
This organization is working with the Company's product sites to develop
products for storage intensive consumer applications such as digital video
recorders, sub-$500 personal computers, Internet appliances and set-top boxes.
The Consumer Solutions organization is currently negotiating with potential
technology partners to jointly develop technologies for Information Appliances,
Personal Video Recorders, and Home A/V Networking.

   Within Consumer Solutions, Seagate is establishing a Consumer Applications
Lab (CA Lab), with expertise in system architectures, A/V recording, home
networking and storage interconnects. As part of its charter, the CA Lab will
provide strategic direction to Seagate's product sites in the development of
disc drives and other storage technologies which will be optimized for consumer
applications.

   Also in fiscal year 1999, the Company established its Intelligent Storage
Platforms group, an organization which will leverage the Company's expertise in
network and server storage to develop products for new network devices, the
Internet, high performance servers and other information-centric computing
applications. These solutions will combine hardware, software and services to
provide new products for the Company's existing OEM and strategic distributor
customer base and address the needs of emerging markets for storage and
storage-related applications.

   Intelligent Storage Platforms' solutions are focused on the emergence of
Information Appliances, application-based servers, and storage services to
benefit users by delivering a greater range of online services, higher
networked-computing performance, and a reduced IT cost structure.

   No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to successfully
complete the design or introduction of new products in a timely manner, that
the Company will be able to manufacture new products in volume with acceptable
manufacturing yields, or successfully market these products, or that these
products will perform to specifications on a long-term basis. Failure to meet
any of the above objectives in a timely manner has in the past and may in the
future have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of
operations.

   During the fiscal years ended July 2, 1999, July 3, 1998 and June 27, 1997,
the Company's product development expenses were $581 million, $585 million and
$459 million, respectively.

Patents and Licenses

   The Company has approximately 1,032 U.S. patents and 572 foreign patents and
has approximately 857 U.S. and 875 foreign patent applications pending. Due to
the rapid technological change that characterizes the rigid disc drive
industry, the Company believes that the improvement of existing products,
reliance upon trade secrets and unpatented proprietary know-how and development
of new products are generally more important than patent protection in
establishing and maintaining a competitive advantage. Nevertheless, the Company
believes that patents are of value to its business and intends to continue its
efforts to obtain patents, when available, in connection with its research and
development program. There can be no assurance that any patents obtained will
provide substantial protection or be of commercial benefit to the Company, or
that their validity will not be challenged.

                                       13
<PAGE>

   Because of rapid technological development in the disc drive industry,
certain of the Company's products have been and it is possible other products
could be accused of infringement of existing patents. The rigid disc drive
industry has been characterized by significant litigation relating to patent
and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, the Company receives
claims that certain of its products infringe patents of third parties. Although
the Company has been able to resolve some such claims or potential claims by
obtaining licenses or rights under the patents in question without a material
adverse affect on the Company, other such claims are pending which if resolved
unfavorably to the Company could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business. For a description of current disputes see Part I, Item 3 of
this Report. In addition, the costs of engaging in intellectual property
litigation may be substantial regardless of outcome. The Company has patent
cross licenses with a number of companies in the computer industry.
Additionally, the Company has agreements in principle with other major disc
drive companies.

Competition

   The rigid disc drive industry is intensely competitive, with manufacturers
competing for a limited number of major customers. The principal competitive
factors in the rigid disc drive market include product quality and reliability,
form factor, storage capacity, price per unit, price per megabyte, product
performance, production volume capability and responsiveness to customers. The
relative importance of these factors varies with different customers and for
different products. The Company believes that it is generally competitive as to
these factors.

   The Company has experienced and expects to continue to experience intense
competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies, some of which have
far greater resources than the Company. The Company competes with other
independent disc drive manufacturers in the market for disc drive products. In
addition to independent rigid disc drive manufacturers, the Company also faces
competition from present and potential customers, including IBM, Toshiba, NEC,
Fujitsu Limited and Samsung who continually evaluate whether to manufacture
their own drives or purchase them from outside sources. These manufacturers
also sell drives to third parties which results in direct competition with the
Company.

   Product life cycles are relatively short in the disc drive industry. The
Company expects its competitors to offer new and existing products at prices
necessary to gain or retain market share and customers. To remain competitive,
the Company believes it will be necessary to continue to reduce its prices and
aggressively enhance its product offerings. In addition to the foregoing, the
ability of the Company to compete successfully will also depend on its ability
to provide timely product introductions and to continue to reduce production
costs. The Company's establishment of production facilities in Singapore,
Thailand, Malaysia and China are directed toward such cost reductions. The
Company believes that its future success will depend upon its ability to
develop, manufacture and market products of high quality and reliability which
meet changing user needs, and which successfully anticipate or respond to
changes in technology and standards on a cost-effective and timely basis, of
which there can be no assurance.

   The introduction of products using alternative technologies could be a
significant source of competition. For example, high-speed semiconductor memory
could compete with the Company's products in the future. Semiconductor memory
(SRAM and DRAM) is much faster than magnetic disc drives, but currently is
volatile (i.e., subject to loss of data in the event of power failure) and much
more costly. Flash EE prom, a nonvolatile semiconductor memory, is currently
much more costly and, while it has higher read performance than disc drives, it
has lower write performance. Flash EE prom could become competitive in the near
future for applications requiring less storage capacity (i.e., less than 200
MB) than is required in the Company's more traditional computer related market
place.

Employees

   From July 3, 1998 to July 2, 1999, the number of persons employed worldwide
by the Company decreased from approximately 87,000 to approximately 82,000.
Approximately 65,000 of the Company's employees were located in the Company's
Far East operations as of July 2, 1999. In addition, the Company makes use of

                                       14
<PAGE>

supplemental employees, principally in manufacturing, who are hired on an as-
needed basis. Management believes that the future success of the Company will
depend in part on its ability to attract and retain qualified employees at all
levels, of which there can be no assurance. The Company believes that its
employee relations are good.

Executive Officers of the Company

   The present executive officers of the Company are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Executive
                                                                       Officer
           Name            Age               Position                   Since
           ----            --- ------------------------------------   ---------
 <C>                       <C> <S>                                    <C>
 Stephen J. Luczo.........  42 President, Chief Executive Officer,
                               Director of the Company
                               and Chairman of the Board of
                               Directors, Seagate Software, Inc.        1993
 Bernardo A. Carballo.....  50 Executive Vice President, Worldwide
                               Sales, Marketing, Product Line Management
                               and Customer Service Operations          1991
 Don G. Colton............  51 Executive Vice President, Corporate
                               Quality                                  1997
 Thomas F. Mulvaney.......  50 Senior Vice President, General
                               Counsel, and Corporate Secretary         1996
 Charles C. Pope..........  44 Executive Vice President, Finance        1998
                               and Chief Financial Officer
 Townsend H. Porter, Jr...  53 Executive Vice President, Product        1997
                               Technology Development and Chief
                               Technical Officer
 Donald L. Waite..........  66 Executive Vice President, Chief
                               Administrative Officer and Assistant
                               Secretary                                1983
 William D. Watkins.......  46 Executive Vice President and Chief
                               Operating Officer                        1996
</TABLE>

   Officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors and serve at the
discretion of the Board.

   Mr. Luczo joined the Company in October 1993 as Senior Vice President,
Corporate Development. In March 1995, he was appointed Executive Vice
President, Corporate Development and Chief Operating Officer of the Software
Group. In July 1997, he was appointed Chairman of the Board of the Software
Group. Mr. Luczo was promoted to President and Chief Operating Officer in
September 1997 and promoted to Chief Executive Officer and appointed to the
Board of Directors in July 1998. Prior to joining the Company he was Senior
Managing Director of the Global Technology Group of Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc.,
an investment banking firm, from February 1992 to October 1993. He serves as a
Director of VERITAS Software Corporation and Gadzoox Networks, Inc.

   Mr. Carballo was General Manager, Product Line Management for the Company's
Oklahoma City operations at the time of the Company's acquisition of Imprimis
in 1989. In 1990 he was promoted to Vice President, Product Line Management,
Oklahoma City operations, in September 1991 he was promoted to Senior Vice
President, Sales, Marketing and Product Line Management and in March 1995 he
was promoted to Executive Vice President Worldwide Sales, Marketing, Product
Line Management and Customer Service.

   Mr. Colton was Vice President, Product Line Management for Seagate's
Oklahoma City and Twin Cities operations from September 1991. He was promoted
to Senior Vice President, Product Line Management in August 1995. He was
promoted to Executive Vice President, Corporate Quality in September 1997. Mr.
Colton joined the Company in 1989 with the Company's acquisition of Imprimis,
Inc.

   Mr. Mulvaney joined the Company in February 1996 with the Company's merger
with Conner Peripherals as Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and
Assistant Secretary. In July 1998, Mr. Mulvaney was appointed Corporate
Secretary. Mr. Mulvaney was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary at
Conner Peripherals from May 1995 until February 1996. Prior to joining Conner
Peripherals, Mr. Mulvaney was with VLSI Technology, Inc. from May 1990 to May
1995 where he served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and held
departmental responsibility for legal, human resources, corporate
communications and facilities.

                                       15
<PAGE>

   Mr. Pope was promoted to Executive Vice President in April 1999 and Chief
Financial Officer in February 1998. Mr. Pope held the position of Senior Vice
President, Finance from January 1997 to April 1999. Mr. Pope joined Seagate as
director of Budgets and Analysis with the Company's acquisition of Grenex in
1985. He has held a variety of positions in his 14 year executive experience
with Seagate including Director of Finance for Thailand operations; Vice
President, Finance, Far East operations; Vice President, Finance and Treasurer;
Vice President and General Manager, Seagate Magnetics; and most recently,
Senior Vice President Finance, Storage Products.

   Mr. Porter joined the Company on June 2, 1997 as Chief Technology Officer,
Storage Products Group. In September 1997 he was promoted to Executive Vice
President. Mr. Porter was Vice President of Research and Development,
Enterprise Storage Group at Western Digital from November 1994 to May 1997.
From 1968 to 1994, Mr. Porter held engineering, program management, and
executive positions at IBM.

   Mr. Waite joined the Company in 1983 as Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer, and was promoted to Senior Vice President, Finance in 1984.
In March 1995 he was promoted to Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative
Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Waite was appointed Assistant
Secretary of the Company in July 1998. Mr. Waite was Chief Financial Officer of
the Company from October 1983 until February 1998. Mr. Waite was Secretary of
the Company from October 1983 until July 1998. He serves as a Director of
California Micro Devices and Seagate Software, Inc., a subsidiary of the
Company.

   Mr. Watkins joined the Company in February 1996 with the Company's merger
with Conner Peripherals as Executive Vice President, Recording Media Group. In
October 1997, Mr. Watkins took on additional responsibility as Executive Vice
President of the Disc Drive Operations, and in August 1998 was appointed to the
position of Chief Operating Officer, with responsibility for the Company's disc
drive manufacturing, recording media, and recording head operations. Prior to
joining the Company he was President and General manager of the Conner
Peripherals Disk Division from January 1990 until December 1992. In January
1993, Mr. Watkins was promoted to Senior Vice President, Manufacturing
Operations.

                                       16
<PAGE>

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

   Seagate's executive offices are located in Scotts Valley, California.
Principal manufacturing facilities are located in Singapore, Thailand,
Malaysia, Minnesota, California, Oklahoma, the People's Republic of China and
Northern Ireland. A portion of the Company's facilities are occupied under
leases which expire at various times through 2015. The following is a summary
of square footage owned or leased by the Company:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                          Facilities (square feet)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                               Adminis-    Product   Manufacturing
  Location                      trative  Development  & Warehouse    Total
  --------                     --------- ----------- ------------- ----------
<S>                            <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>
North America
  California
    Central California........    12,800      1,030       16,768       30,598
    Northern California.......   361,153    284,521      229,661      875,335
    Southern California.......    33,700        --       347,890      381,590
  Colorado....................     8,608    333,774          --       342,382
  Minnesota...................   187,032    423,498      834,054    1,444,584
  Oklahoma....................    93,502    110,097      294,301      497,900
  Northeast USA...............     8,760        226          --         8,986
  Southeast USA...............    35,908        --           --        35,908
  Other USA...................    26,119     65,584       46,341      138,044
  Canada/Mexico...............   117,163     57,930      499,926      675,019
                               ---------  ---------    ---------   ----------
      Total North America.....   884,745  1,276,660    2,268,941    4,430,346
                               ---------  ---------    ---------   ----------
Europe
  England.....................    21,918     15,632        3,972       41,522
  Ireland.....................     1,200        --           --         1,200
  Northern Ireland............    68,200      4,900      459,000      532,100
  Netherlands.................    28,955        --        92,234      121,189
  Scotland....................    12,057        --        42,824       54,881
  Other Europe................    46,309        --           --        46,309
                               ---------  ---------    ---------   ----------
      Total Europe............   178,639     20,532      598,030      797,201
                               ---------  ---------    ---------   ----------
Asia
  People's Republic of China..    25,972        --       197,476      223,448
  Malaysia....................   135,396        --     1,264,376    1,399,772
  Philippines.................       --         --           --           --
  Singapore...................   288,569     35,519    1,530,570    1,854,658
  Thailand....................   221,464        --     1,535,213    1,756,677
  Other Pacific Rim...........    53,584        --        38,470       92,054
                               ---------  ---------    ---------   ----------
      Total Asia..............   724,985     35,519    4,566,105    5,326,609
                               ---------  ---------    ---------   ----------
      Total................... 1,788,369  1,332,711    7,433,076   10,554,156(1)
                               =========  =========    =========   ==========
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Includes 7,198,035 square feet owned by the Company and 5,362,448 square
    feet leased by the Company. Excludes space that is unoccupied, subleased or
    under construction.

                                       17
<PAGE>

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

   The following discussion contains forward-looking statements within the
meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements relate to the Company's legal
proceedings described below. Litigation is inherently uncertain and may result
in adverse rulings or decisions. Additionally, the Company may enter into
settlements or be subject to judgments that may, individually or in the
aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of
operations. Accordingly, actual results could differ materially from those
projected in the forward-looking statements.

   Patent Litigation--In November 1992, Rodime, PLC ("Rodime") filed a
complaint in Federal Court for the Central District of California, alleging
infringement of U.S. Patent No. B1 4,638,383 and various state law unfair
competition claims. It is the opinion of the Company's patent counsel that the
Company's products do not infringe any valid claims of the Rodime patent in
suit and thus the Company refused Rodime's offer of a license for its patents.
Other companies, however, such as IBM, Hewlett-Packard and a number of Japanese
companies have reportedly made payments to and taken licenses from Rodime. On
October 24, 1997, the Court entered a Final Judgment against Rodime and in
favor of Seagate. Rodime appealed from the final judgment, and on April 13,
1999, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit issued a decision which
vacated the judgments of the District Court on non-infringement and no
liability under Rodime's state claims, affirmed the exclusion of Rodime's
consequential business damages, and remanded the case to the District Court for
further proceedings. The Company intends to petition the U.S Supreme Court
regarding Rodime's appeal and to vigorously defend itself in any further
proceedings in the District Court.

   On October 5, 1994, a patent infringement action was filed against the
Company by an individual, James M. White, in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent Nos.
4,673,996 and 4,870,519. Both patents relate to air bearing sliders. On
February 12, 1999, the Company entered into a settlement agreement with Mr.
White, and on February 22, 1999, the Court dismissed the action, with
prejudice.

   On December 16, 1996, a patent infringement action was filed against the
Company by an individual, Virgle Hedgcoth, in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California, San Jose Division, for alleged infringement of
U.S. Patent Nos. 4,735,840; 5,082,747; and 5,316,864. These patents relate to
sputtered magnetic thin-film recording discs for computers and their
manufacture. Additionally, on July 1, 1997, Mr. Hedgcoth filed a patent
infringement action against the Company in the same Court for alleged
infringement of a fifth patent, U.S. Patent No. 5,262,970, issued May 6, 1997.
Mr. Hedgcoth passed away on April 8, 1998, and the Court subsequently
substituted Susan Ann Alexander Hedgcoth as a party Plaintiff in place of Mr.
Hedgcoth. On December 4, 1998, the Company entered into a settlement agreement
with Ms. Hedgcoth which resulted in a dismissal of the action, with prejudice,
on February 11, 1999.

   Papst Licensing, GmbH ("Papst"), has given the Company notice that it
believes certain former Conner Peripherals, Inc. ("Conner") disc drives
infringe several of its patents covering the use of spindle motors in disc
drives. It is the opinion of the Company's patent counsel that the former
Conner disc drives do not infringe any valid claims of the patents. The Company
also believes that subsequent to the merger with Conner, the Company's earlier
paid-up license under Papst's patents extinguishes any ongoing liability. The
Company also believes it enjoys the benefit of a license under Papst's patents
since Papst Licensing had granted a license to motor vendors of Conner. Papst
is currently involved in litigation with other disc drive and disc drive motor
manufacturers.

   On February 26, 1999, the Lemelson Medical, Education & Research Foundation
("Foundation") filed a lawsuit against 88 defendants in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Arizona, alleging that the Company infringes 16 patents
relating to the use of machine vision, computer image analysis and automatic ID
or bar code scanners in its manufacturing processes. In August 1999, the
Company entered into a license agreement with the Foundation whereby all
current and future products that utilize such technology are licensed. No
additional action on this case is expected.

                                       18
<PAGE>

   In the normal course of business, the Company receives and makes inquiry
with regard to other possible intellectual property matters including alleged
patent infringement. Where deemed advisable, the Company may seek or extend
licenses or negotiate settlements.

   Other Matters--The Company is involved in a number of other judicial and
administrative proceedings incidental to its business. Although occasional
adverse decisions (or settlements) may occur, the Company believes that the
final disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company's financial position or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

   Not applicable.

                                       19
<PAGE>

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

   The Company's common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol "SEG." The price range per share, included in Part II, Item 6 of this
Report, is the highest and lowest sale prices for the Company's common stock as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange during each quarter. The Company's
present policy is to retain its earnings to finance future growth. The Company
has never paid cash dividends and has no present intention to pay cash
dividends. At July 2, 1999, there were approximately 6,990 stockholders of
record of the Company's common stock. As of August 17, 1999, the closing price
of the Company's common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange was
$31 per share.

   There have been no sales of unregistered securities by the Company since
July 1, 1994.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Fiscal Year Ended
                                      -------------------------------------------

                                      July 2, July 3,   June 27, June 28, June 30,
                                       1999    1998      1997     1996     1995
                                     -------  -------  -------- -------- --------
                                           In millions, except per share data
<S>                                  <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
Revenue.............................  $6,802   $6,819    $8,940   $8,588   $7,256
Gross margin........................   1,552      989     2,022    1,581    1,373
Income (loss) from operations.......     258     (686)      858      287      459
Gain on contribution of NSMG to
 VERITAS, net.......................   1,670      --        --       --       --
Income (loss) before extraordinary
 gain...............................   1,176     (530)      658      213      313
Net income (loss)...................   1,176     (530)      658      213      319
Basic income (loss) per share before
 extraordinary gain.................    4.94    (2.17)     2.82     1.07     1.64
Basic net income (loss) per share...    4.94    (2.17)     2.82     1.07     1.67
Diluted income (loss) per share
 before extraordinary gain..........    4.53    (2.17)     2.62      .97     1.44

Diluted net income (loss) per
 share..............................    4.53    (2.17)     2.62      .97     1.47
Total assets........................   7,072    5,645     6,723    5,240    4,900
Long-term debt, less current
 portion............................     703      704       702      798    1,066
Stockholders' equity................  $3,563   $2,937    $3,476   $2,466   $1,936
Number of shares used in per share
 computations:
  Basic.............................   237.9    243.6     233.6    199.7    190.6
  Diluted...........................   243.1    243.6     257.9    236.1    244.7
</TABLE>

   The 1999 results of operations include a $1.670 billion net gain on the
contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS, a $119 million charge related to the
Company's equity investment in VERITAS, a $78 million charge in connection with
an amendment to the purchase agreement for the August 1997 acquisition of
Quinta Corporation, and a $60 million net restructuring charge. The 1998
results of operations include a $347 million restructuring charge, a $223
million write-off of in-process research and development incurred primarily in
connection with the acquisition of Quinta Corporation, a $76 million charge for
mark-to-market adjustments on certain of the Company's foreign currency forward
exchange contracts and a $22 million reduction in the charge recorded in 1997
as a result of the adverse judgment in the Amstrad PLC litigation (see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations"). The 1997 results of operations include a $153 million charge as a
result of the adverse judgment in the Amstrad PLC litigation. The 1996 results
of operations include a $242 million restructuring charge as a result of the
merger with Conner Peripherals, Inc. and a $99 million write-off of in-process
research and development incurred in connection with the acquisition of
software companies. The 1995 results of operations include a $73 million write-
off of

                                       20
<PAGE>

in-process research and development incurred in connection with business
acquisitions. Prior periods have been restated to reflect the merger with
Conner Peripherals, Inc. in February 1996 on a pooling of interests basis, a
two-for-one stock split, effected in the form of a stock dividend, in November
1996, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128 ("SFAS 128"),
"Earnings Per Share," adopted in the second quarter of fiscal 1998.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             QUARTERLY/FISCAL 1999
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                    1st          2nd         3rd        4th
                                 ----------- ------------ ----------------------
                                 Unaudited, in millions except per share data
<S>                              <C>         <C>          <C>        <C>
Revenue......................... $    1,553  $      1,801 $    1,805 $    1,643
Gross margin....................        321           428        434        369
Income (loss) from operations...        (37)          126         87      1,645
Net income (loss)...............        (30)          104         82      1,020
Net income (loss) per share:
  Basic.........................       (.12)          .43        .35       4.53
  Diluted.......................       (.12)          .42        .34       4.11
Price range per share:
  Low........................... $   16 1/8  $   19 13/16 $   25 5/8 $   25 5/8
  High.......................... $   27 3/8  $     34 1/2 $   44 1/4 $   33 1/2
</TABLE>

   The results for the first quarter include a $78 million charge in connection
with an amendment to the purchase agreement for the August 1997 acquisition of
Quinta Corporation and a $7 million charge in connection with the separation
agreement with the Company's former Chief Executive Officer. The results of the
third quarter include a $72 million restructuring charge and the reversal of
fiscal 1998 restructuring charges of $12 million. The results for the fourth
quarter include a $1.670 billion net gain on the contribution of NSMG to New
VERITAS, and a $119 million charge related to the Company's equity investment
in VERITAS.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          QUARTERLY/FISCAL 1998
                              -------------------------------------------------
                                 1st          2nd          3rd          4th
                              ----------- -----------  -----------  -----------
                               Unaudited, in millions except per share data
<S>                           <C>         <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenue.....................  $    1,896  $     1,673  $     1,675  $     1,575
Gross margin................         295          192          204          298
Income (loss) from
 operations.................        (200)        (277)        (221)          12
Net income (loss)...........        (240)        (183)        (129)          22
Net income (loss) per share:
  Basic.....................        (.98)        (.75)        (.53)         .09
  Diluted...................        (.98)        (.75)        (.53)         .09
Price range per share:
  Low.......................  $   34 1/8  $   18 7/16  $    17 3/4  $   19 7/16
  High......................  $   45 3/4  $    40 5/8  $   27 3/16  $    29 5/8
</TABLE>

   The results for the first quarter include a $216 million write-off of in-
process research and development incurred primarily in connection with the
acquisition of Quinta Corporation and a $63 million charge for mark-to-market
adjustments on certain of the Company's foreign currency forward exchange
contracts. The results for the second quarter include a $205 million
restructuring charge, a $22 million reduction in the $153 million charge
recorded in 1997 as a result of the adverse judgment in the Amstrad PLC
litigation (See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations") and a $13 million charge for mark-to-market
adjustments on certain of the Company's foreign currency forward exchange
contracts. The results for the third quarter include a $142 million
restructuring charge. The results for the fourth quarter include a $7 million
write-off of in-process research and development incurred in connection with
the acquisition of Eastman Software Storage Management Group, Inc. in June
1998. Prior periods have been restated to reflect SFAS 128, "Earnings Per
Share," adopted in the second quarter of fiscal 1998.


                                       21
<PAGE>

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

   The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the five-year
summary of selected financial data in Item 6 of this Report and the Company's
consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in Item 8 of this
Report. All references to years represent fiscal years unless otherwise noted.

                      CERTAIN FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

   Certain statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A"),
and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July
2, 1999 are forward-looking statements based on current expectations, and
entail various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Certain of these risks and uncertainties are set forth below under "Foreign
Currency Risks," "Factors Affecting Future Operating Results," elsewhere in
this MD&A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These forward-
looking statements include the statements relating to continued price erosion
in the first paragraph under "Results of Operations--1999 vs 1998," the
statements relating to continued expansion into complementary markets and
write-offs of in-process research and development in the fifth paragraph under
"Results of Operations--1999 vs 1998," the statements relating to the 1999
effective tax rate in the eighth paragraph under "Results of Operations--1999
vs 1998," the statements relating to the IRS adjustments in the second
paragraph under "Results of Operations--1999 vs 1998," the statements regarding
the decline in value of the Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit relative to the
U.S. dollar and future movements in currency exchange rates under "Disclosures
about Market Risk--Foreign Currency Risk," the statements regarding capital
expenditures in the third paragraph under "Liquidity and Capital Resources,"
the statements regarding the sufficiency of the Company's resources in the last
paragraph under "Liquidity and Capital Resources," and the statements under
"Factors Affecting Future Operating Results," among others.

                                    OVERVIEW

   Seagate designs, manufactures and markets products for storage, retrieval
and management of data on computer and data communications systems. These
products include disc drives, tape drives and software. Seagate designs,
manufactures and markets a broad line of rigid magnetic disc drives for use in
computer systems ranging from desktop personal computers to workstations and
supercomputers, as well as in multimedia applications. The Company sells its
products to original equipment manufacturers for inclusion in their computer
systems or subsystems, and to distributors who typically sell to small OEMs,
dealers, system integrators and other resellers. In addition, the Company
markets a broad line of Travan, Digital Audio Tape (DAT) and Advanced
Intelligent Tape (AIT) products. These products are dedicated back-up storage
peripherals designed to meet the needs of market segments ranging from desktop
PCs to midrange servers.

   The Company has pursued a strategy of vertical integration and accordingly
designs and manufactures rigid disc drive components including recording heads,
discs, disc substrates, motors and custom integrated circuits. It also
assembles certain of the key subassemblies for use in its products including
printed circuit board and head stack assemblies.

   The Company has also invested in, and currently intends to continue
investigating opportunities to invest in software activities. The Company
anticipates that users of computer systems will increasingly rely upon
client/server network computing environments and believes that as this reliance
increases, users will demand software that more efficiently and securely
stores, manages, and accesses data and transforms it into usable information.
As such, the Company has broadened its core competencies to include software
products and technologies to meet these requirements.

   On May 28, 1999, the Company completed the contribution of its Network and
Storage Management Group ("NSMG"), a portion of its Seagate Software
subsidiary, to VERITAS Software. As part of the NSMG

                                       22
<PAGE>

contribution to VERITAS Software, the Company received an equity position in
the new VERITAS Software. The Company retains ownership of the remaining
portion of its Seagate Software subsidiary, the Information Management Group
("IMG"). IMG includes Crystal Services, Inc., and Holistic Systems, Ltd. and
offers business intelligence software solutions featuring Enterprise
Information Management ("EIM"). IMG's products include features such as query
and reporting, automated report scheduling and distribution, information
delivery across the World Wide Web, on-line analytical processing ("OLAP"),
forecasting, statistical analysis, discovery and data mining. IMG's primary
products are Seagate Crystal Reports, Seagate Crystal Info and Seagate Holos.

   In addition, the Company has equity positions in Dragon Systems, Inc., a
developer and producer of voice recognition software; Gadzoox Networks, a
developer and producer of hardware and software products for storage area
networks; SanDisk Corp., a designer and manufacturer of flash memory data
storage products used in a wide variety of electronic products; and
iCompression, a provider of real time MPEG-2 video and audio compression
technology that enables low cost digital video-based solutions and allows
economic storage and transmission of TV quality multimedia data.

 Business Combinations--In Process Research and Development

   The Company has a history of business combinations and during the three most
recent fiscal years these included the contribution of its Network and Storage
Management Group to New VERITAS in fiscal 1999 and the acquisitions of Quinta
Corporation and Eastman Storage Software Management Group in fiscal 1998. No
significant business combinations occurred in fiscal 1997. In connection with
these business combinations, the Company has recognized significant write-offs
of in-process research and development. The completion of the underlying in-
process projects acquired within each business combination was the most
significant and uncertain assumption utilized in the valuation analysis of the
in-process research and development. Such uncertainties could give rise to
unforeseen budget over runs and/or revenue shortfalls in the event that the
Company is unable to successfully complete a certain R&D project. The Company
is primarily responsible for estimating the fair value of the purchased R&D in
all business combinations accounted for under the purchase method. The nature
of research and development projects acquired, the estimated time and costs to
complete the projects and significant risks associated with the projects are
described below.

 Contribution of the Network and Storage Management Group to New VERITAS

   On May 28, 1999, Seagate Technology, and its direct and indirect
subsidiaries, Seagate Software and the Seagate Software Network & Storage
Management Group, closed and consummated the Agreement and Plan of
Reorganization (the "Plan") dated as of October 5, 1998 with VERITAS Holding
Corporation ("New VERITAS") and VERITAS Software Corporation ("VERITAS"). The
Plan provided for the contribution by Seagate Technology, Seagate Software, and
certain of their respective subsidiaries to New VERITAS of (a) the outstanding
stock of the Network & Storage Management Group and certain other subsidiaries
of Seagate Software and (b) those assets used primarily in the network and
storage management business of Seagate Software (the "NSMG business"), in
consideration for the issuance of shares of Common Stock of New VERITAS to
Seagate Software and the offer by New VERITAS to grant options to purchase
Common Stock of New VERITAS to certain of Seagate Software's employees who
become employees of New VERITAS or its subsidiaries. As part of the Plan, New
VERITAS assumed certain liabilities of the NSMG business. The Plan was
structured to qualify as a tax-free exchange.

   Subsequent to the consummation, all outstanding securities of New VERITAS
were assumed and converted into common stock of VERITAS with identical rights,
preferences and privileges, on a share for share basis. As a result of the
contribution of the NSMG business to New VERITAS, Seagate Software received a
total of 69,148,208 shares of VERITAS common stock and former employees of the
NSMG business received options to purchase an aggregate of 6,945,048 shares of
VERITAS common stock. Share and option amounts for VERITAS have been adjusted
to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective July 9, 1999 by VERITAS.

                                       23
<PAGE>

   Seagate Technology has accounted for the contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS
as a non-monetary transaction using the fair value of the assets and
liabilities exchanged. After the transaction, Seagate Software owns
approximately 41.63% (69,148,208 shares) of the outstanding shares of VERITAS,
including the NSMG business. Because Seagate Technology still owns a portion of
the NSMG business through its ownership of VERITAS, Seagate Technology did not
recognize 100% of the gain on the exchange. The gain recorded is equal to the
difference between 58.37% of the fair value of the VERITAS common stock
received and 58.37% of Seagate Technology's basis in the NSMG assets and
liabilities exchanged. Seagate Technology is accounting for its on going
investment in VERITAS using the equity method. The difference between the
recorded amount of Seagate Technology's investment in VERITAS and the amount of
its underlying equity in the net assets of VERITAS has been allocated based
upon the fair value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets and
liabilities of VERITAS. The intangible assets included amounts allocated to in-
process research and development and resulted in a $85 million write-off
included in activity related to equity interest in VERITAS in the accompanying
statement of operations. Intangible assets including goodwill are being
amortized over four years.

   Seagate Technology will include in its financial results its share of the
net income or loss of VERITAS, excluding certain NSMG purchase accounting
related amounts recorded by VERITAS, but including Seagate Technology's
amortization of the difference between its recorded investment and the
underlying assets and liabilities of VERITAS. Because of practicality
considerations, the net income or loss of VERITAS will be included in the
results of Seagate Technology on a one quarter lag basis. The results of
VERITAS for the period from May 29, 1999 to June 30, 1999, the period
subsequent to the contribution of NSMG to VERITAS, will be included in the
Company's results of operations for the quarter ended October 1, 1999. The
results of VERITAS for the period from July 1, 1999 to September 30, 1999 will
be included in the Company's results for the quarter ended December 31, 1999.

   In a separate but related transaction to the NSMG contribution to VERITAS,
on June 9, 1999, the Company exchanged 5,275,772 shares of its common stock for
3,267,255 of the outstanding shares of Seagate Software common stock owned by
employees, directors and consultants of Seagate Software. The exchange ratio
was determined based on the estimated value of Seagate Software common stock
divided by the fair market value of Seagate Technology common stock.

   The estimated value of Seagate Software common stock exchanged into Seagate
Technology common stock was determined based upon the sum of the fair value of
the NSMG business, as measured by the fair value of the shares received from
VERITAS, plus the estimated fair value of the Information Management Group
("IMG") of Seagate Software as determined by the Seagate Technology Board of
Directors, plus the assumed proceeds from the exercise of all outstanding
Seagate Software stock options, divided by the number of fully converted shares
of Seagate Software. The Board of Directors of Seagate Technology considered a
number of factors in determining the estimated fair value of the IMG business,
including historical and projected revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well
as other factors and consultations with financial advisors.

   The fair value of the Seagate Software shares acquired less the original
purchase price paid by the employees was recorded as compensation expense for
those shares outstanding and vested less than six months. The purchase of
Seagate Software shares outstanding and vested more than six months was
accounted for as the purchase of a minority interest and, accordingly, the fair
value of the shares exchanged has been allocated to all of the identifiable
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Seagate Software. In
connection with the acquisition, Seagate Software recorded the acquisition of
the minority interest, Seagate Technology recorded compensation expense
amounting to approximately $124 million and wrote off purchased research and
development amounting to $2 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.
Associated intangible assets and goodwill are being amortized to operations
over four years.

   The value allocated to projects identified as in-process technology at
VERITAS and Seagate Software, for the minority interest acquired, were charged
to expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999. These write-offs were
necessary because the acquired technologies had not reached technological
feasibility at the date of purchase and have no future alternative uses.
Seagate Software expects that the acquired in-process research

                                       24
<PAGE>

and development will be successfully developed, but there can be no assurance
that commercial viability of these products will be achieved.

   The nature of the efforts required to develop the purchased in-process
technology into commercially viable products principally relate to the
completion of all planning, designing, prototyping, verification and testing
activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to
meet its design specifications, including functions, features and technical
performance requirements. The value of the purchased in-process technology for
VERITAS was estimated as the projected net cash flows related to such products,
including costs to complete the development of the technology and the future
revenues to be earned upon commercialization of the products, excluding
revenues attributable to future development efforts. These cash flows were then
discounted back to their net present value. The projected net cash flows from
such projects were based on management's estimates of revenues and operating
profits related to such projects.

   As of the date of the contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS, Seagate
Software's management and VERITAS Software's management anticipated the costs
to complete the in-process technologies at approximately $5.8 million and $44.2
million, respectively.

 Quinta Corporation

   Quinta's research and development efforts revolve around Optically Assisted
Winchester ("OAW") technology. OAW refers to Quinta's newly designed recording
technology that, upon completion, would be implemented into Winchester hard
disc drives. OAW combines traditional magnetic recording technology with
Winchester hard disc drives and optical recording capabilities; optical
recording technology enables greater data storage capacity. By integrating
advanced optical features along with a highly fine and sophisticated tracking
and delivery system within the head design, OAW would multiply the areal
density of disc drives.

   Through August 8, 1997, the acquisition date, Quinta had demonstrated
significant achievements in developing its technology. However, further
technological milestones were required before technological feasibility could
be achieved. Quinta's development process consists of the following development
milestones: (i) route light (optical fiber), (ii) flying head use, (iii)
recording media, (iv) mirror creation and demonstration (two stage servo), (v)
complete assembly, (vi) form factor containment, (vii) design verification
test, (viii) customer qualification, and (ix) delivery. Future products were
expected to include fixed and removable drives and cartridges. Seagate
Technology expected to introduce products incorporating Quinta's OAW technology
within 12 months of the acquisition date.

   At the time of completing the Quinta acquisition, the Company estimated that
additional R&D spending of $9.4 million and $3.9 million in fiscal 1998 and
1999, respectively, would be required to complete the project. Since that time,
Seagate has redirected its efforts so that the Company is focused less on the
development of a specific product and more on the advancement of optical
technology in general. As such, the spending elements associated with the
development of optical technology are embedded in the R&D budgets of the
Company's product design centers and component technology organizations.

   At the present time the Company has no immediate plans to release a storage
device which makes specific use of Quinta's "Optically Assisted Winchester"
technology. Delay in releasing such a storage device is not expected to
materially affect the Company's future earnings.

 Eastman Software Storage Management Group

   Eastman Software SMG ("Eastman") was acquired in June 1998. Eastman develops
a hierarchical storage management product for Microsoft's Windows NT platform
and its two primary products are OPEN/stor for Windows NT and AvailHSM for
NetWare. By integrating Eastman's product line, Seagate will be able to convert
its Storage Migrator product into a stand-alone HSM application for Windows NT
environments. As of

                                       25
<PAGE>

the date of acquisition, Seagate abandoned the AvailHSM product and technology
due to dated features and functionality; the valuation analysis did not include
a fair value for the AvailHSM product.

   As for OPEN/stor at the date of acquisition, Seagate planned to phase out
the product over the following 12 to 15 months. Seagate's purpose for the
acquisition was for the next generation technologies that were underway at
Eastman, referenced by project names Sakkara and Phoenix. These projects were
complete re-writes of Eastman's prior generation technology that would allow
the product to be sold stand-alone upon completion. The anticipated release
dates for Sakkara and Phoenix were the 2nd quarter of fiscal year 1999 and the
4th quarter of fiscal year 1999, respectively. As of the date of acquisition,
Seagate anticipated the costs to complete both Sakkara and Phoenix at
approximately $1.8 million. These products were not released prior to the
closing of the contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS.

Results of Operations

   The following table sets forth certain items in the Company's Consolidated
Statements of Operations as a percentage of revenue for each of the three years
in the period ended July 2, 1999.


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Percentage of
                                                                 Revenue
                                                              -----------------
                                                              1999  1998   1997
                                                              ----  ----   ----
<S>                                                           <C>   <C>    <C>
Revenue...................................................... 100%  100%   100%
Cost of sales................................................  77    85     77
                                                              ---   ---    ---
Gross margin.................................................  23    15     23
Product development..........................................   9     9      5
Marketing and administrative.................................   8     7      6
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles............... --      1    --
In-process research and development.......................... --      3    --
Restructuring................................................   1     5    --
Unusual items................................................   1   --       2
                                                              ---   ---    ---
Income (loss) from operations................................   4   (10)    10
Other income, net............................................  23   --     --
                                                              ---   ---    ---
Income (loss) before income taxes............................  27   (10)    10
Benefit (provision) for income taxes......................... (10)    2     (3)
                                                              ---   ---    ---
Net income (loss)............................................  17%   (8)%    7%
                                                              ===   ===    ===
</TABLE>

   1999 vs 1998--Revenue in 1999 was flat when compared to 1998. A higher level
of unit shipments, an increase of 9% as compared to 1998, combined with a shift
in mix to the Company's higher priced products was offset by a continuing
decline in the average unit sales prices of the Company's products as a result
of intensely competitive market conditions. Revenue decreased to $1.643 billion
in the fourth quarter of 1999 from $1.805 billion in the third quarter of 1999
as a result of price erosion. The Company's overall average unit sales price on
its disc drive products was $194, $194, $196 and $177 for the four quarters of
fiscal 1999, respectively. Average price erosion from fiscal year 1998 to
fiscal year 1999 was 9%. The Company expects that price erosion in the data
storage industry will continue for the foreseeable future. This competition and
continuing price erosion may adversely affect the Company's results of
operations in any given quarter and such an adverse effect often cannot be
anticipated until late in any given quarter.

   The increase in gross margin as a percentage of revenue from the prior year
was primarily due to cost savings as a result of the Company's restructuring
activities and an intensive program of cost reduction resulting in lower
average unit costs per disc produced. Excluding the gross margin of the
Company's Seagate Software, Inc. subsidiary ("Seagate Software") which
subsidiary's products generally have higher gross margins, the Company's gross
margins would have been 19% and 11% in 1999 and 1998, respectively.

                                       26
<PAGE>

   Product development expenses decreased by $4 million (1%) compared with
1998, primarily due to a decrease of $23 million in occupancy costs, and a $19
million accrual in fiscal year 1998 for payments to former shareholders of
Quinta for achievement of certain product development milestones. These
decreases were substantially offset by increases of $12 million in salaries and
related costs, $12 million in profit sharing accruals and $11 million in
depreciation. The decrease of $23 million in occupancy costs from the
comparable year-ago period was primarily due to the closure of certain of the
Company's product design centers pursuant to its January 1998 restructuring
plan.

   Marketing and administrative expenses increased by $32 million (6%) compared
with 1998, primarily due to increases of $28 million related to the Company's
software products and services, particularly those of Seagate Software's
Information Management Group, $17 million in salaries and related costs, $8
million in legal expenses which includes settlements in the White, Hedgcoth and
Lemelson cases (see Section I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings), $7 million in profit
sharing accruals and $6 million in depreciation. These expenses were partially
offset by decreases of $27 million in occupancy costs and $13 million in
advertising and promotion expenses. The decrease of $27 million in occupancy
costs from the comparable year-ago period was primarily due to the closure of
certain of the Company's facilities pursuant to its January 1998 restructuring
plan.

   Of the $223 million charge for the write-off of in-process research and
development in 1998, $214 million was a result of the August 1997 acquisition
of Quinta and $7 million was a result of the June 1998 acquisition of Eastman.
See Acquisitions note to the consolidated financial statements.

   In 1999, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $72 million and
reversed $12 million of restructuring accruals recorded in fiscal 1998,
resulting in a net restructuring charge of $60 million. The $12 million
reversal was a result of the Company abandoning its plan to seek an agreement
with an external vendor to supply parts currently manufactured at a facility in
Thailand. The $72 million restructuring charge was a result of steps the
Company is taking to further improve the efficiency of its operations. These
actions include closure of the Company's microchip manufacturing facility in
Scotland; discontinuance of the Company's recording head suspension business
located in Malaysia and Minnesota; consolidation of global customer service
operations by relocating such operations in Singapore, Scotland and Costa Mesa,
California to Mexico; and closure of the Company's recording media substrate
facility in Mexico. In connection with this restructuring, the Company
currently expects a workforce reduction of approximately 1250 employees.
Approximately 631 of the 1,250 employees had been terminated as of July 2,
1999. As a result of employee terminations and the write-off or write-down of
equipment and facilities in connection with implementing the fiscal year 1999
restructuring plan, the Company estimates that annual salary and depreciation
expense will be reduced by approximately $27 million and $16 million,
respectively. The Company anticipates that the implementation of the
restructuring plan will be substantially complete by the end of March 2000.

   The Company is in the process of developing a restructuring plan designed to
realign its manufacturing capacity and increase productivity. Some minor
restructuring activities have taken place during the first quarter of fiscal
2000; however, as the plan is further developed, the Company expects there to
be additional restructuring activities that could be substantial. As a result,
the Company will be required to record a potentially substantial charge to
operations associated with this restructuring in its fiscal quarter ended
October 1, 1999.

   The $78 million charge to unusual items in 1999 was in connection with an
amendment to the purchase agreement for the August 1997 acquisition of Quinta.
See Acquisitions note to the consolidated financial statements. The $22 million
in income in unusual items in 1998 represents a $22 million reduction of the
$153 million charge recorded in 1997 to settle a lawsuit against the Company by
Amstrad PLC.

   Net other income in 1999 increased by $1.633 billion compared with 1998. The
increase in net other income was primarily due to the net gain of $1.670
billion on the contribution of the Company's NSMG business to VERITAS Software
Corporation ("VERITAS") partially offset by the charge related to the Company's
equity investment in VERITAS of $119 million in the fourth quarter of 1999. The
net gain of $1.670 billion consisted of a gain of $1.806 billion net of
compensation expense of $124 million and merger-

                                       27
<PAGE>

related expenses of $12 million. In addition, the increase in net other income
was due to $76 million of expenses related to mark-to-market adjustments in
1998 on certain of the Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts
for the Thai baht and the Malaysian ringgit.

   The Company recorded a $697 million provision for income taxes at an
effective rate of 37% in 1999 compared with a $174 million benefit for income
taxes at an effective rate of 25% in 1998. The change in income taxes was
primarily due to income from operations in 1999 and to income taxes provided on
the pre-tax gain of $1.670 billion recorded on the contribution of the
Company's NSMG business to VERITAS Software Corporation. Excluding the effects
of the VERITAS transaction, the non-deductible charges from the Quinta
Corporation acquisition and certain non-recurring restructuring costs, the
effective tax rate was approximately 28% in 1999.

   The Company provided income taxes at the U.S. statutory rate in 1999 on
approximately 55% of its foreign earnings compared with approximately all of
such earnings in 1998. A substantial portion of the Company's Far East
manufacturing operations at plant locations in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia
and China operate under various tax holidays which expire in whole or in part
during fiscal years 2001 through 2009. The net impact of these tax holidays was
to increase net income by approximately $35 million ($.14 per share, diluted)
in 1999. The tax holidays had no impact on the net loss in 1998.

   The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 27, 1997
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to taxable years 1991 through 1993
assessing potential deficiencies approximating $39 million plus interest and
approximately $6 million of penalties. The Company petitioned the United States
Tax Court on September 24, 1997 for a re-determination of the deficiencies. The
Company believes that the likely outcome of this matter will not have a
material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

   The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 12, 1998
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to Conner's taxable years 1991 and
1992 assessing potential deficiencies approximating $11 million plus interest.
The Company petitioned the United States Tax Court on September 10, 1998 for a
re-determination of the deficiencies. The Company believes that the likely
outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on its financial
position or results of operations.

   1998 vs 1997--Revenue in 1998 was 24% lower than that reported in 1997. The
decrease in revenue from the prior year was due primarily to a continuing
decline in the average unit sales prices of the Company's products as a result
of intensely competitive market conditions, a lower level of unit shipments
reflecting continuing weakness in demand for the Company's disc drive products
and a shift in mix away from the Company's higher priced products. The price
erosion accounted for $1.6 billion of the revenue decline while volume issues
accounted for $0.4 billion.

   The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of revenue from the prior year
was primarily due to a continuing decline in the average unit sales prices of
the Company's disc drive products, particularly its desktop products, as a
result of intensely competitive market conditions, lower consolidated revenue
and a shift in mix away from the Company's higher performance disc drives,
partially offset by reductions in manufacturing costs. In 1997 desktop gross
margins improved over 1996 primarily due to strong demand for these products.
This strong demand resulted in most of the Company's desktop disc drive
products going on allocation and thus stabilizing prices. In 1998 the situation
changed. There was excess capacity in the industry for desktop disc drives
which resulted in severe price erosion. Because of these factors, as well as
poor time-to-market performance with respect to the Company's products, desktop
gross margins declined substantially in 1998. The Company's overall average
unit sales price on its disc drive products was $219, $206, $208 and $229 for
the four quarters of fiscal 1998, respectively. Additionally, there was an
increase in revenue (34%) of the Company's Seagate Software, Inc. subsidiary
("Seagate Software") which subsidiary's products generally have higher gross
margins. Excluding the gross margin of Seagate Software, the Company's gross
margins would have been 11% and 22% in 1998 and 1997, respectively.


                                       28
<PAGE>

   Product development expenses increased by $126 million (27%) compared with
1997, primarily due to increases of $39 million in salaries and related costs,
$26 million in allocated occupancy costs and $19 million in payments or
accruals for such payments to former shareholders of Quinta Corporation
("Quinta"), acquired by the Company in August 1997, for achievement of certain
product development milestones, and an overall increase in the Company's
product development efforts. The Company's product development activities
include efforts to improve its time-to-market performance, the development of
ultra-high capacity disc drive technologies, including a new optically-assisted
Winchester (OAW) technology being developed by Quinta and development efforts
related to its software and tape drive products. These increases in expenses
were partially offset by substantially reduced employee profit sharing and
executive bonuses in 1998.

   Marketing and administrative expenses increased by $9 million (2%) compared
with 1997, primarily due to increases of $22 million in advertising and
promotion expenses, $21 million in marketing and administrative expenses
related to the Company's software products and services, particularly those of
Seagate Software's Information Management Group and $17 million in salaries and
related costs. These increases in expenses were partially offset by decreases
of $21 million in allocated occupancy costs, $15 million in employee profit
sharing and executive bonuses, $10 million in legal expenses and $6 million in
the provision for bad debts.

   Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles decreased by $10 million
(20%) compared with 1997, primarily due to the inclusion in amortization
expense of the write-down of goodwill and the write-offs and write-downs in
1997 of certain intangible assets related to past acquisitions of software
companies whose value had become permanently impaired and the resultant
subsequent $13 million reduction in amortization expense, partially offset by
additional amortization of $2 million related to goodwill and intangibles
arising from the Company's additional investment in Dragon Systems, Inc.
("Dragon") in September 1997.

   Of the $223 million charge for the write-off of in-process research and
development, $214 million was a result of the August 1997 acquisition of Quinta
and $7 million was a result of the June 1998 acquisition of Eastman Software
Storage Management Group, Inc. ("ESSMG"). In April and June 1997, Seagate
invested an aggregate of $20 million to acquire approximately ten percent (10%)
of Quinta's stock. In August 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of
Quinta. Pursuant to the purchase agreement with Quinta, the shareholders of
Quinta, other than Seagate, received cash payments aggregating $230 million
upon the closing of the acquisition and were eligible to receive additional
cash payments aggregating $96 million upon the achievement of certain product
development and early production milestones. Of the $96 million, $19 million
was paid or accrued in fiscal 1998. In July 1998, the Company and Quinta
amended the purchase agreement to eliminate the product development and early
production milestones and provide that the former shareholders of Quinta would
be eligible to receive the remaining $77 million and the $14 million that had
been accrued but unpaid in fiscal 1998. In the first quarter of fiscal 1999,
the Company took a charge to operations for the remaining $77 million. The
Company recognizes the uncertainty associated with the completion of purchased
in-process research and development. Such uncertainties could give rise to
unforeseen budget overruns and/or revenue shortfalls in the event that the
Company is unable to successfully complete a given research and development
project.

   The Company recorded restructuring charges of $205 million in the second
quarter of 1998 and $142 million in the third quarter of 1998. The aggregate
charges of $347 million reflect steps the Company is taking to align worldwide
operations with current market conditions by reducing existing capacity in all
areas of the Company and improving the productivity of its operations and the
efficiency of its development efforts by consolidating manufacturing and R&D
operations. Actions include exiting production of mobile products; early
discontinuation of several other products; closing and selling the Clonmel,
Ireland drive manufacturing facility; closing and subleasing the San Jose and
Moorpark, California design center facilities; aborting production expansion
projects in Cork, Ireland; and divesting the Company of the new Philippines
manufacturing facility, which was nearing completion.

   The restructuring charges were comprised of employee related costs for
severance of $57 million; facilities costs for facilities the Company is no
longer using for current activities which include lease termination and

                                       29
<PAGE>

holding costs of $24 million for facilities located in California and the Far
East, and the write-off or write-down of owned and leased facilities located in
California, the Philippines and Ireland of $54 million; write-off or write-down
of $137 million for excess manufacturing, assembly and test equipment and
tooling formerly utilized primarily in California, Singapore, Thailand and
Ireland; write-off of intangibles and other assets including $9 million for
capital equipment deposits and $2 million for goodwill associated with
permanently impaired equipment; contract cancellations comprised of $43 million
for costs incurred to cancel outstanding purchase commitments existing prior to
the plan of restructure; and other costs comprised of the repayment of various
grants to the Industrial Development Agency of Ireland of $7 million and a
contingency of $14 million for adjustments to estimates used when the
restructuring charge was recorded.

   The fiscal year 1998 aggregated restructuring reserve included asset write-
offs or write-downs of tangible assets totaling $200 million and intangible
assets totaling $2 million. During the quarter ended January 2, 1998,
forecasted production needs were much lower than the current capacity of the
Company and the Company recognized that the recent oversupply in the
marketplace was not a short-term anomaly. This oversupply was as a result of
competitors in the drive industry completing expansion plans at the same time
that customer demand flattened out in addition to efficiency improvements
achieved in the Company's manufacturing processes. In this period, the Company
also decided to discontinue production of all or a portion of products within
the Elite, Bali, Cuda, Explorer and Phoenix/Futura product families, rendering
test and manufacturing equipment unique to those products as excess. Prior to
this period, there was no indication of permanent impairment of the assets
associated with the recent excess capacity of the Company or the products to be
discontinued. These assets included owned facilities that the Company is
vacating, manufacturing, assembly and test equipment and tooling unique to
production of discontinued products and excess equipment as a result of
consolidating facilities and leasehold improvements for leased facilities to be
vacated. Discounted future cash flows and evaluations of the resale market for
certain assets were used to estimate fair value.

   The Clonmel, Ireland facility was sold in May 1998 and the majority of the
other tangible assets have been disposed of or sold. The remaining assets are
the Philippines facility, a manufacturing facility in Thailand and the
manufacturing equipment located at the Thailand facility. The Philippines
facility remains vacant and the Company continues to actively seek a buyer. The
manufacturing facility in Thailand continues to be utilized until a
satisfactory agreement can be made with an external vendor to supply parts
currently manufactured at this location. The Company is actively seeking such
an agreement. Until such time as a supplier is qualified, the Company is
continuing to depreciate the Thailand facility and the equipment at this
facility. When these assets are identified as available for sale, no further
depreciation will be recorded. The Company is marketing vacated leased
facilities for sublease unless the remaining lease term is so short as to make
a sublease impractical.

   As a result of employee terminations and write-off or write-down of
equipment and facilities in connection with implementing the fiscal year 1998
restructuring plan, the Company estimates that annual salary and depreciation
expense will be reduced by approximately $170 million and $70 million,
respectively. Certain lease termination and holding costs related to vacated
facilities continue to be incurred and charged against the restructuring
reserve until the leases expire or the facilities are subleased.

   Amstrad PLC ("Amstrad") initiated a lawsuit against the Company in 1992
concerning the Company's sale of allegedly defective disc drives to Amstrad. On
November 6, 1997, the Company and Amstrad settled all of the outstanding
disputes. The settlement resulted in a $22 million reduction in 1998 against
the $153 million charge recorded in 1997. The $22 million reduction and the
$153 million charge are included in unusual items in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations for 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   Net other income in 1998 decreased by $51 million, compared with 1997,
primarily due to charges for mark-to-market adjustments in 1998 of $76 million
on certain of the Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts for the
Thai baht and the Malaysian ringgit offset by $10 million of other foreign
currency transaction gains. Additionally there was an increase in interest
expense of $16 million due to higher average levels of long-term debt
outstanding. These decreases in net other income were partially offset by a
decrease of

                                       30
<PAGE>

$10 million in the charge for minority interest as a result of lower income in
the Company's majority-owned subsidiary in Shenzhen, China, an $8 million gain
on sales of the Company's investment in Overland Data, Inc. and a $6 million
increase in interest income.

   The Company recorded a $174 million benefit from income taxes at an
effective rate of 25% in 1998 compared with a $233 million provision for income
taxes at an effective rate of 26% in 1997. The change in income taxes was
primarily due to the loss from operations incurred in 1998. Excluding the
acquisition of Quinta, certain non-recurring restructuring costs and the
reversal of certain Amstrad litigation charges, the effective tax rate was
approximately 28% in 1998. Excluding the Amstrad litigation charge, the
effective tax rate was approximately 28% in 1997.

   The Company provided income taxes at the U.S. statutory rate of 35% in 1998
on substantially all of its earnings from foreign subsidiaries compared with
approximately 66% of such earnings in 1997. A substantial portion of the
Company's Far East manufacturing operations at plant locations in Singapore,
Thailand, Malaysia and China operate under various tax holidays which expire in
whole or in part during fiscal years 1999 through 2005. The tax holidays had no
impact on the net loss in 1998. The net impact of these tax holidays was to
increase net income by approximately $71 million ($0.28 per share, diluted) in
1997.

                                     OTHER

   For 1999, the net loss resulting from the remeasurement of foreign financial
statements into U.S. dollars was $4 million. Such net gains (losses) did not
have a significant effect on the results of operations for 1998 or 1997. The
effect of inflation on operating results for 1999, 1998 and 1997 has been
insignificant. The Company believes this is due to the absence of any
significant inflation factors in the industry in which the Company
participates.

   In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" ("SFAS 130"). SFAS 130 requires that all items that are required to be
recognized under accounting standards as components of comprehensive income be
reported in a financial statement that is displayed with the same prominence as
other financial statements. This statement is effective for fiscal years
beginning after December 15, 1997, and was adopted by the Company for its
fiscal year 1999. The adoption of SFAS 130 did not have a material impact on
the Company's financial statements.

   Also in June 1997, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information ("SFAS 131"). SFAS 131 replaces Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 14 and changes the way public companies report segment
information. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997 and was adopted by the Company for its fiscal year 1999. The
adoption of SFAS 131 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial
statements.

   In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities." This
statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative
instruments and for hedging activities. It requires that derivatives be
recognized in the balance sheet at fair value and specifies the accounting for
changes in fair value. This statement is effective for all fiscal quarters of
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company is in the process of
assessing the impact of this pronouncement on its financial statements.

   In the second quarter of 1998, the Company implemented Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share" ("SFAS 128"). All
earnings per share amounts for all periods have been presented and, where
necessary, restated to conform to the requirements of SFAS 128. The adoption of
SFAS 128 did not have a material impact on the Company's earnings per share.

                                       31
<PAGE>

                        LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

   At July 2, 1999, the Company's cash, cash equivalents and short-term
investments totaled $1.623 billion, a decrease of $204 million from the prior
year-end balances. This decrease was primarily a result of expenditures of $603
million for property, equipment and leasehold improvements and the repurchase
of approximately 27 million shares of the Company's common stock for nearly
$860 million, partially offset by net cash provided by operating activities.
The Company's cash and cash equivalents are maintained in highly liquid
investments with remaining maturities of 90 days or less at the time of
purchase, while its short-term investments primarily consist of readily
marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more than 90 days at
the time of purchase.

   As of July 2, 1999, the Company had committed lines of credit of $84 million
that can be used for standby letters of credit or bankers' guarantees. At July
2, 1999, $67 million of these lines of credit were utilized.

   The Company made investments in property and equipment in 1999 totaling $643
million. This amount comprised $273 million for manufacturing facilities and
equipment for the recording head operations in the United States, Northern
Ireland and Malaysia; $226 million for manufacturing facilities and equipment
related to the Company's subassembly and disc drive final assembly and test
facilities in the United States, Far East and the United Kingdom; $85 million
for expansion of the Company's thin-film media operations in California,
Singapore, Northern Ireland and Mexico; and $59 million for other purposes. The
Company presently anticipates investments of approximately $700 million in
property and equipment in 2000. The Company plans to finance these investments
from existing cash balances and future cash flows from operations.

   During the year ended July 2, 1999, the Company acquired approximately 27
million shares of its common stock for nearly $860 million. The repurchase of a
portion of these shares completed a stock repurchase program announced in June
1997 in which up to $600 million of the Company's common stock was authorized
to be acquired in the open market. The repurchase of the remainder of these
shares was in connection with an amendment to the June 1997 stock repurchase
program announced in February 1999 in which up to an additional $500 million
worth of the Company's common stock was authorized to be acquired in the open
market. In April 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved an additional
increase to its existing stock repurchase program pursuant to which up to an
additional 25 million shares of the Company's common stock may be acquired in
the open market.

   During the year ended June 27, 1997, the Company issued senior debt
securities totaling $700 million principal amount with interest rates ranging
from 7.125% to 7.875% and maturities ranging from seven years to forty years.

   The Company believes that its cash balances together with cash flows from
operations and its borrowing capacity will be sufficient to meet its working
capital needs for the foreseeable future.

   On June 9, 1999, the Company completed an exchange offer pursuant to which
it had offered to acquire from Seagate Software stockholders all outstanding
shares of Seagate Software common stock in exchange for shares of Seagate
Technology common stock pursuant to an Information Circular/Prospectus dated
April 26, 1999. On the day the NSMG combination closed, employees of the
Network & Storage Management Group business became employees of VERITAS and
ceased to be employees of Seagate Software or the Company, as the case may be.
As a result, employees of Seagate Software who became VERITAS employees and who
exchanged their Seagate Software options for VERITAS options have the ability
to sell their shares in a public market. The Company wished to provide a
similar opportunity for all Seagate Software stockholders and holders of vested
options, including the significant number of such persons who remained
employees of Seagate Software's Information Management Group and therefore were
not be eligible for the VERITAS option exchange offer. Based on information
provided by the exchange agent, approximately 3,267,255 shares of Seagate
Software Common Stock were tendered of which approximately 3,104,735 were
exchanged into

                                       32
<PAGE>

5,272,040 shares of Seagate Technology Common Stock. Giving effect to the
shares of Seagate Software Common Stock tendered in the Exchange Offer, the
Company beneficially owned, as of June 10, 1999, approximately 57,962,988
shares of Seagate Software Common Stock, or 99.96 % of the shares of Seagate
Software Common Stock outstanding as of that date. Directors and officers of
Seagate Technology exchanged an aggregate of 278,329 shares of Seagate Software
Common Stock.

   Pursuant to a registration statement declared effective by the Securities
and Exchange Commission on August 9, 1999, the Company's Seagate Software
subsidiary sold an aggregate of 8,232,667 shares of VERITAS common stock for
proceeds of $396.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and
before expenses. Seagate Software acquired such shares in connection with the
contribution of the Network & Storage Management Group business to VERITAS. The
underwriters have an option to acquire an additional 909,833 shares of VERITAS
common stock to cover over-allotments from Seagate Software prior to
September 8, 1999 at a per share price of $48.1925 (net of underwriting
discounts and commissions). In connection with the sale of the VERITAS shares,
Seagate Software agreed that it would not sell or otherwise dispose of any
additional shares of VERITAS common stock prior to November 7, 1999. Certain
exceptions to this limitation apply, including transfers to affiliated entities
and the sale of the remaining over-allotment option noted above.

   On August 17, 1999, SanDisk Corporation, a company in which Seagate holds an
equity interest, filed a registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in connection with a public offering of 3,000,000 shares of
its common stock. Of the 3,000,000 shares, 2,750,000 will be sold by SanDisk
and 250,000 will be sold by the Company.

   Concurrent with the equity offering, the Company will enter into a prepaid
forward contract with the SanDisk PEPS Trust in connection with a public
offering of an aggregate of $200 million of Premium Exchangeable Participating
Shares, or PEPS, of the Trust. The SanDisk PEPS Trust will offer the
underwriters an option to purchase an additional $30 million of PEPS to cover
any over-allotments in connection with the PEPS offering.

   In addition, Thomas F. Mulvaney, senior vice president, general counsel and
secretary of Seagate Technology, resigned from SanDisk's board of directors on
August 13, 1999.

                   FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

   We compete in the data storage industry, and there are a number of factors
that, in the past, have affected all of the companies in our industry,
including us. Many of these factors may also impact our business in the future.

Slowdown in demand for computer systems may cause a decline in demand for our
products

   Our products are components in computer systems. The demand for computer
systems has been volatile in the past and often has had an exaggerated effect
on the demand for our disc drive and tape drive products, in any given period.
In the past, unexpected slowdowns in demand for computer systems have generally
caused sharp declines in demand for disc drives and tape drive products. We
expect that this situation will occur again in the future and that demand for
our disc drive and tape drive products may be reduced. Causes of the declines
in demand in the past for our products have included the announcement or
introduction of major operating system or semiconductor improvements, such as
Windows 95 or the Pentium II. We believe these announcements and introductions
caused consumers to defer their purchases and made existing inventory obsolete.

   In our industry, the supply of drives periodically exceeds demand. When this
happens, the over supply of available products causes us to have higher than
anticipated inventory levels and we experience intense price competition from
other disc drive and/or tape drive manufacturers.

                                       33
<PAGE>

Our financial results will vary

   We often experience a high volume of sales at the end of the quarter, so we
may not be able to determine that our fixed costs are too high relative to
sales until late in any given quarter. Since this happens late in the quarter,
we do not have enough time to reduce these costs. As a result, we would not be
as profitable or may even incur a loss. In addition, our operating results have
been and may in the future be subject to significant quarterly fluctuations as
a result of a number of other factors including:

  .  the timing of orders from and shipment of products to major customers,
     such as Compaq,

  .  our product mix, with respect to higher margin, more recently introduced
     disc drive products versus older, lower margin disc drive products,

  .  accelerated reduction in the price of our disc drive products due to an
     oversupply of disc drives in the world market,

  .  manufacturing delays or interruptions, particularly at our major
     manufacturing facilities in Malaysia, Thailand, China and Singapore,

  .  acceptance by customers of competing technologies in lieu of our
     products,

  .  variations in the cost of components for our products,

  .  limited access to components that we obtain from a single or a limited
     number of suppliers,

  .  our inability to reduce our fixed costs to match revenue in any quarter
     because of our vertical manufacturing strategy,

  .  the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on the cost of
     our products and the effective price of such products to foreign
     consumers, and

  .  competition and consolidation in the data storage industry.

   In addition, our future operating results may also be adversely affected if
we receive an adverse judgment or settlement in any of the legal proceedings to
which we are a party. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings.

We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively

   Even during periods when demand is stable, the data storage industry is
intensely competitive and vendors experience price erosion over the life of a
product. Historically our competitors have offered new or existing products at
lower prices as part of a strategy to gain or retain market share and
customers. We expect these practices to occur again in the future. We also
expect that price erosion in our industry will continue for the foreseeable
future. Because we may need to reduce our prices to retain our market share,
the competition could adversely affect our results of operations in any given
quarter. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience intense
competition from a number of domestic and foreign companies including the other
independent disc drive manufacturers, as well as large integrated multinational
manufacturers such as:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
       INTEGRATED                                   INDEPENDENT
       ----------                                   -----------
       <S>                                          <C>
       Fujitsu Limited                              Maxtor Corporation
       International Business Machines Corporation  Quantum Corporation
       NEC Corporation                              Western Digital Corporation
       Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.
       Toshiba Corporation
</TABLE>

   Integrated multinational manufacturers present formidable competitors
because they have more substantial resources and access to customers without
having to consider the profitability of the disc drive business in pricing its
components. For example, IBM recently entered into agreements with both EMC and
Dell under

                                       34
<PAGE>

which IBM will likely supply a substantial portion of these companies' disc
drive needs. We face risks that IBM and other integrated multinational
manufacturers will enter into similar agreements with a substantial number of
our customers to supply those customers' disc drive requirements as part of a
more expansive agreement.

   We also face indirect competition from present and potential customers,
including several of the computer manufacturers listed above, that continuously
evaluate whether to manufacture their own drives or purchase them from outside
sources. If our customers decide to manufacture their own drives, it could have
a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

   We also compete with manufacturers of products that use alternative data
storage and retrieval technologies. Products based upon such alternative
technologies, including optical recording technology and semiconductor memory
(flash memory, SRAM and DRAM), may compete with our products.

   We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future
competitors. If we fail to compete successfully, our business, operating
results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected.

We may not develop products in time to meet changing technologies

   Our customers have demanded new generations of drive products as advances in
other hardware components and software have created the need for improved
storage products with features such as increased storage capacity or improved
performance and reliability. As a result, the life cycles of our products have
been shortened, and we have been required to constantly develop and introduce
new cost-effective drive products within time to market windows that become
progressively shorter. We had research and development expenses of $581
million, $585 million and $459 million in fiscal 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

   When we develop new disc and tape drive products with higher capacity and
more advanced technology, our operating results may decline because the
increased difficulty and complexity associated with producing such disc drives
increases the likelihood of reliability, quality or operability problems. If
our products suffer increases in failures, are of low quality or are not
reliable, customers may reduce their purchases of our products and our
manufacturing rework and scrap costs and service and warranty costs may
increase. In addition, a decline in the reliability of our products may make us
less competitive as compared with other disc and tape drive manufacturers.

   Our products are used in combination with other hardware, such as
microprocessors, and other software. Seagate Technology's future success will
also require strong demand by consumers and businesses for computer systems,
storage upgrades to computer systems and multimedia applications. If delivery
of our products is delayed, our original equipment manufacturer ("OEM")
customers may use our competitors' products in order to meet their production
requirements. In addition, if delivery of those OEMs' computer systems into
which our products are integrated is delayed, consumers and businesses may
purchase comparable products from the OEMs' competitors. The consumers and
businesses may wait to make their purchases if they want to buy a product that
has been announced but not yet released, thus we would not be able to sell our
existing inventory of products. If customers hold back in anticipation of a new
product, or buy from a competitor instead, our operating results may be
significantly adversely impacted.

   Consumers have shown that they want to purchase personal computers costing
less than $1,000. We are producing and selling low cost disc drives to meet the
demand for disc drives that are components of low cost personal computers.
However, we may not be able to produce disc drives that meet our quality and
performance standards at a cost low enough to yield gross margins at acceptable
levels to sustain the development efforts.

   Seagate Technology discontinued production of disc drives that use media
smaller than 3.5 inches, in January 1998. We are continuing research and
development of smaller drives, because we believe that to

                                       35
<PAGE>

compete successfully to supply components for mobile, laptop, notebook and
ultraportable computers, we must supply a smaller product. We intend to re-
enter this market with a durable, low power application in the future, although
there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully.

Our vertical integration strategy entails a high level of fixed costs

   The cost, quality and availability of certain components, including heads,
media, application specific integrated circuits, motors, printed circuit boards
and custom semiconductors are critical to the successful production of disc
drives. Our strategy of vertical integration has allowed us to internally
manufacture many of the critical components used in our products. We have
pursued a strategy of vertical integration of our manufacturing processes in
order to reduce costs, control quality and assure availability and quality of
certain components.

   Seagate Technology's vertical integration strategy entails a high level of
fixed costs and requires a high volume of production and sales to be
successful. During periods of decreased production, these high fixed costs have
had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on our operating
results and financial condition. In addition, a strategy of vertical
integration has in the past and could continue to delay our ability to
introduce products containing market-leading technology, because we may not
have developed the technology in house and do not have access to external
sources of supply without incurring substantial costs. For example, over the
past two years we have experienced delays in product launches due to delays in
production of certain components as a result of slower than anticipated
internal development and manufacturing scale-up of new designs.

We have experienced delays in the introduction of products due to supply of
components

   Seagate Technology also relies on independent suppliers for certain
components. In the past we have experienced production delays when we were
unable to obtain sufficient quantities of certain components. Any prolonged
interruption or reduction in the supply of any key components could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition. We may rely on single or limited source suppliers for certain
components used in our products. We may not be able to obtain components that
meet our specifications and quality standards at prices that enable us to earn
a profit on the finished products. For example, in the past Seagate Technology
has experienced delays obtaining head stack assemblies and certain integrated
circuits for printed circuit board assemblies due to lead-time requirements or
changes in specifications. As a result, certain of our suppliers substantially
increased the price of such components, and we have incurred increased costs
for certain of these components as a result of supply shortages. If we
experience any extended interruption or reduction in the supply of any key
components, our business, results of operations and financial condition could
be materially adversely affected.

If our customers delay or cancel orders, our revenue will be adversely affected

   The data storage industry has been characterized by large volume OEM
purchase agreements and large distributor orders. Typically, our OEM purchase
agreements permit the OEMs to cancel orders and reschedule delivery dates
without significant penalties. In the past, orders from many of our OEMs were
cancelled or delivery schedules were delayed as a result of changes in the
requirements of the OEM's customers. These order cancellations and delays in
delivery schedules have had a material adverse effect on our results of
operations in the past, and may again in the future. Our OEMs and foreign
distributors typically furnish us with non-binding indications of their near-
term requirements, with product deliveries based on weekly confirmations. To
the extent actual orders from foreign distributors and OEMs decrease from their
non-binding forecasts, such variances could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We face risks from our international operations

   Seagate Technology has significant offshore operations including
manufacturing facilities, sales personnel and customer support operations. We
have manufacturing facilities in Singapore, Thailand, the People's

                                       36
<PAGE>

Republic of China, Northern Ireland, Malaysia, and Mexico, in addition to those
in the United States. Our offshore operations are subject to certain inherent
risks including:

  .  fluctuations in currency exchange rates, such as the $76 million charge
     to income Seagate Technology incurred in fiscal 1998 from marking our
     hedge positions to market,

  .  longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries,

  .  difficulties in staffing and managing international manufacturing
     operations,

  .  seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in Europe
     and certain other countries,

  .  increases in tariffs and duties, price controls, restrictions on foreign
     currencies and trade barriers imposed by foreign countries, and

  .  political unrest, particularly in areas in which we have manufacturing
     facilities.

   These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business,
operating results and financial condition in the future.

   Seagate Technology's products are priced predominately in U.S. dollars even
when sold to customers who are located abroad. The currency instability in the
Asian and other financial markets may make our products more expensive than
products sold by other manufacturers that are priced in one of the affected
currencies. Therefore, foreign customers may reduce purchases of our products.
We anticipate that the turmoil in financial markets and the deterioration of
the underlying economic conditions in the recent past in certain countries,
including those in Asia, may have an impact on our sales to customers located
in or whose end-user customers are located in those countries due to:

  .  the impact of currency fluctuations on the relative price of our
     products,

  .  restrictions on government spending imposed by the International
     Monetary Fund in those countries receiving the International Monetary
     Fund's assistance,

  .  customers' reduced access to working capital to fund purchases of disc
     drive components or software, such as our products due to:

    .  higher interest rates,

    .  reduced bank lending due to contractions in the money supply or the
       deterioration in the customer's or its bank's financial condition,
       or

    .  the inability to access other financing

We face risks from the contribution of our Network & Storage Management Group
to VERITAS

   We consolidated our software businesses into a single entity called Seagate
Software in 1996. Seagate Software's business consisted of two primary
divisions, Network & Storage Management Group and Information Management Group.
We contributed NSMG to a newly formed company, New VERITAS, consisting of NSMG
and VERITAS Software Corporation on May 28, 1999. Seagate Technology's Seagate
Software subsidiary and Seagate Software employees who became New VERITAS
employees and who held stock options in Seagate Software received approximately
42% of the fully diluted equity in New VERITAS.

   We face a number of risks from the closing of the NSMG combination
including:

  .  Information Management Group employees may be distracted by concerns
     about whether we will continue to operate that business or spin it off,
     and may not meet critical deadlines in their assigned tasks,

  .  the ongoing OEM relationship with the Network & Storage Management Group
     and our tape drive operations may be disrupted and we may not be able to
     meet our customers' order deadlines or needs as a result,


                                       37
<PAGE>

  .  we have agreed not to compete in certain storage management software
     markets for a specified period of time after the closing of the NSMG
     combination and may not be able to benefit from future opportunities in
     those markets,

  .  we do not have significant control over the management of New VERITAS,
     although currently we have two representatives on its board of
     directors, but our financial statements and results of operations will
     reflect 42% of New VERITAS' operations which may impact our stock price,
     and

  .  we are only permitted to sell our interest in New VERITAS in limited
     increments.

Acquisition related accounting charges will reduce our profits

   We intend to continue our expansion into complementary data technology
businesses through internal growth as well as acquisitions. Acquisitions
involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the
operations and products of the acquired businesses and the potential loss of
key employees or customers of the acquired businesses. We expect that we will
continue to incur substantial expenses as we acquire other businesses including
charges for the write-off of in-process research and development. Our operating
results have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate in the future because of
the timing of such write-offs. For example, we incurred a charge to operations
in the first quarter of fiscal 1998 of approximately $214 million for the
write-off of in-process research and development related to our acquisition of
Quinta Corporation and a charge to operations in the fourth quarter of fiscal
1999 of approximately $85 million for the write-off of in-process research and
development related to the contribution of the Network & Storage Management
Group business to New VERITAS, and will experience ongoing charges related to
the amortization of purchased intangibles amounting to approximately $100
million per quarter.

Systems failures could adversely affect our business

   Seagate Technology's operations are dependent on our ability to protect our
computer equipment and the information stored in our databases from damage by
fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized
intrusion and other catastrophic events. We believe that we have taken prudent
measures to reduce the risk of interruption in our operations. However, we
cannot be sure that these measures are sufficient. Any damage or failure that
causes interruptions in our operations could have a material adverse effect on
our business, results of operations and financial condition.

We may experience Year 2000 computer problems that harm our business

   The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written using
two digits rather than four to define the applicable year. Computer programs
that have date-sensitive software may recognize a date using "00" as the year
1900 rather than the year 2000. Seagate Technology considers a product to be in
"Year 2000 compliance" if

  .  the product's performance and functionality are unaffected by processing
     of dates prior to, during and after the year 2000, but only if

  .  all products (for example hardware, software and firmware) used with the
     product properly exchange accurate date data with it.

   Our Products. We are assessing the capability of our products to determine
whether or not they are in Year 2000 compliance. Although we believe our disc
and tape drive products and certain of our software products are in Year 2000
compliance, we have determined that certain software products produced by
Seagate Software, which are not material to Seagate Technology, are not and
will not be Year 2000 compliant. We are taking measures to inform our customers
that those products are not and will not be Year 2000 compliant. To assist our
customers in evaluating their Year 2000 issues, our Seagate Software subsidiary
has developed a list of those products that are Year 2000 compliant as stand-
alone products. The list is located on Seagate

                                       38
<PAGE>

Software's World Wide Web page and is periodically updated when assessment of
the Year 2000 compliance of additional products is completed. To date, the
costs Seagate Technology has incurred related to these programs have been
immaterial.

   However, the assessment of whether a complete system will operate correctly
depends on the BIOS capability and software design and integration, and for
many end-users this will include BIOS, software and components provided by
companies other than Seagate Technology or Seagate Software. Seagate Technology
considers a disc drive or tape product to be Year 2000 capable if when used
properly and in conformity with the product information provided by us, our
product will accurately store, display, process, provide and/or receive data
from, into and between 1999 and 2000, including leap year calculations if all
other technology used in combination with the Seagate Technology disc drive or
tape product properly exchanges date data with the Seagate Technology product.

   We are incurring various costs to provide customer support and customer
satisfaction services regarding Year 2000 issues and anticipate that these
expenditures will continue in fiscal 2000 and thereafter. In addition, we have
contacted our major customers to determine whether their products into which
our products have been and will be integrated are Year 2000 compliant. Seagate
Technology has received assurances of Year 2000 compliance from major US
customers. Many offshore customers have not responded and are under no
contractual obligation to provide us with Year 2000 compliance information.
Seagate Technology is taking steps with respect to new customer agreements to
ensure that the customers' products and internal systems are Year 2000
compliant.

   Even if our products are Year 2000 compliant, we may be named as a defendant
in litigation against the vendors of all of the component products of systems
if some components of the systems are unable to properly manage data related to
the Year 2000. Our customer agreements typically contain provisions designed to
limit our liability for such claims. It is possible, however, that these
measures will not provide protection from liability claims, as a result of
existing or future federal, state or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable
judicial decisions. If any such claims are brought against Seagate Technology,
regardless of their merit, our business, financial condition and results of
operations could be materially adversely affected from factors that include
increased warranty costs, customer satisfaction issues and the costs of
potential lawsuits.

   Our Systems. We have also initiated a comprehensive program to address Year
2000 readiness in our internal systems and with our customers and suppliers.
Our program has been designed to address our most critical internal systems
first and to gather information regarding the Year 2000 compliance of products
supplied to Seagate Technology and into which our products are integrated.
Seagate Technology conducted a Year 2000 inventory of information technology
systems in the first quarter of 1997. Risk assessment was substantially
complete by the end of the second quarter of 1997, and remediation activities
were completed. However, as participation in the Year 2000 readiness projects
continues to increase throughout the Company, additional systems are being
added for assessment and audit. Approximately 2,200 items were identified, and
as of August 1999, all items have been resolved with the exception of two
phased deployments in certain Asian plants which are on schedule and are being
managed on an exception basis to the overall project schedule. Before new
technology acquisitions are implemented, they are inventoried and assessed;
these are not included in the foregoing project dates. An initial inventory of
technology systems not managed by the Information Technology organization was
completed in the third calendar quarter of 1997. A second inventory in the
second and third calendar quarters of 1998 included all manufacturing
operations with special emphasis on embedded technology and facilities.

   Approximately 6,000 items were identified (non-information technology and
embedded combined) of which approximately two-thirds are Year 2000 compliant.

                                       39
<PAGE>

   We are using the following phased approach to Year 2000 readiness:
inventory, assessment, disposition, test and audit. Anticipated dates of
completion of each phase are as follows:

<TABLE>
      <S>                                                     <C>
      1. Inventory...........................................      Complete
      2. Assessment..........................................      Complete
      3. Disposition.........................................      Complete
      4. Test................................................      Complete
      5. Audit............................................... September 15, 1999
</TABLE>

   These activities are intended to encompass all major categories of systems
in use by Seagate Technology, including manufacturing, engineering, sales,
finance and human resources. To date, we have not incurred material costs
related to assessment and remediation of Year 2000 readiness. We currently
expect that the total cost of our Year 2000 readiness programs, excluding
redeployed resources, will not exceed $10 million. This total cost estimate
does not include potential costs related to any customer or other claims or the
costs of internal software or hardware replaced in the normal course of
business. The total cost and time to completion estimates are based on the
current assessment of our Year 2000 readiness needs and are subject to change
as the projects proceed.

   Seagate Technology's material third party relationships include
relationships with suppliers, customers and financial institutions. Seagate
Technology has identified 600 suppliers which are critical to our operations,
and we have surveyed each to provide details of their Year 2000 efforts,
including internal systems, operations and supply chain as well as a schedule
for their projects. As of March 1999, 99% of such suppliers had responded
affirmatively and been approved. In May 1999, we initiated an onsite validation
process for those suppliers considered most critical. We expect to complete
this phase by September 1999; plans will be developed for any that fail
validation, including alternate sources or additional inventory for sole source
suppliers. In addition, Seagate Technology has joined the High Tech Consortium
for Year 2000 to pool supply chain efforts with other companies in our
industry.

   Seagate Technology's largest customers were also surveyed regarding their
Year 2000 efforts. We currently do not anticipate any material impact due to a
Year 2000-related failure of a major customer. All of our financial
institutions have been surveyed. All of our primary banking activities can be
accommodated by our two major multi-national banking partners with the
exception of payroll in certain Asian countries that must be handled in local
currency. We are following Year 2000 progress in these areas closely and will
develop specific contingency plans for meeting payroll if we cannot obtain
assurance that these local banks are fully prepared.

   Because Year 2000 compliance measures for Seagate Technology's core and
mission-critical systems are complete, we do not consider failure of these
systems to be within a reasonable Year 2000 worst case scenario. We believe we
are primarily at risk due to failures within external infrastructures such as
utilities and transportation systems. We are currently examining these risk
areas to develop responses and action plans. These include a business shutdown
at all locations on December 31, 1999 and, where justified due to external risk
factors, power down on December 31, 1999 with controlled startup prior to
business resumption on January 3, 2000.

   While we currently expect that the Year 2000 issues will not pose
significant operational problems, we could experience material adverse effects
on our business if we fail to fully identify all Year 2000 dependencies in our
systems and in the systems of our suppliers, customers and financial
institutions. Those material adverse effects could include delays in the
delivery or sale of Seagate Technology's products. Therefore, we are developing
contingency plans for continuing operations in the event such problems arise.

                                       40
<PAGE>

Our stock price will fluctuate

   Our stock price has varied greatly as has the volume of shares of our common
stock that are traded. We expect these fluctuations to continue due to factors
such as:

  .  announcements of new products, services or technological innovations by
     us or our competitors,
  .  announcements of major restructurings by us or our competitors,
  .  quarterly variations in our results of operations as a result of our
     fixed short-term cost structure and volatility in the demand for our
     products,
  .  changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community and
     speculation in the press or investment community stemming from our past
     performance, concerns about demand for our products, or announcements by
     our competitors,
  .  general conditions in the data storage industry or the personal computer
     industry such as the substantial decline in demand for disc drive
     products that occurred during fiscal 1998,
  .  changes in our revenue growth rates or the growth rates of our
     competitors,
  .  sales of large blocks of our stock that may lead to investors' concerns
     that our performance will falter and leading those investors to flood
     the market to liquidate their holdings of our shares,
  .  adverse impacts on our operating results if we receive an adverse
     judgment or settlement in any of the legal proceedings to which we are a
     party, such as the impact on our earnings in fiscal 1997 from the costs
     resulting from the settlement of a lawsuit by Amstrad PLC, and
  .  price erosion.

   The stock market may from time to time experience extreme price and volume
fluctuations. Many technology companies have experienced such fluctuations. In
addition, our stock price may be affected by general market conditions and
domestic and international macroeconomic factors unrelated to our performance.
Often such fluctuations have been unrelated to the operating performance of the
specific companies. The market price of our common stock may experience
significant fluctuations in the future. For example, our stock price fluctuated
from a high of $44 1/4 to a low of $16 1/8 during fiscal year 1999.

ITEM 7A. DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

   Interest Rate Risk--The Company's exposure to market risk for changes in
interest rates relates primarily to the Company's investment portfolio and
long- term debt obligations. The Company does not use derivative financial
instruments in its investment portfolio. The Company places its investments
with high credit quality issuers and, by policy, limits the amount of credit
exposure to any one issuer. As stated in its policy, the Company is averse to
principal loss and ensures the safety and preservation of its invested funds by
limiting default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk.

   The Company mitigates default risk by investing in only the highest credit
quality securities and by constantly positioning its portfolio to respond
appropriately to a significant reduction in a credit rating of any investment
issuer, guarantor or depository. The portfolio includes only marketable
securities with active secondary or resale markets to ensure portfolio
liquidity.

   The Company has no cash flow exposure due to rate changes for long-term debt
obligations. The Company primarily enters into debt obligations to support
general corporate purposes including capital expenditures and working capital
needs.

                                       41
<PAGE>

   The table below presents principal (or notional) amounts and related
weighted average interest rates by year of maturity for the Company's
investment portfolio and debt obligations. All investments mature, by policy,
in three years or less, except for certain types of investments that may mature
in more than three years but whose weighted average maturity is three years or
less.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          Fair Value
                         2000  2001  2002  2003 2004  Thereafter Total   July 2, 1999
                         ----  ----  ----  ---- ----  ---------- ------  ------------
                                           Dollars in millions
<S>                      <C>   <C>   <C>   <C>  <C>   <C>        <C>     <C>
Assets
Cash equivalents
  Fixed rate............ $350  $--   $--   $--  $--      $--     $  350     $  350
  Average interest
   rate................. 5.29%  --    --    --   --       --       5.29%
Short-term investments
  Fixed rate............  202   364   432   --   --       --        998        994
  Average interest
   rate................. 5.48% 6.02% 6.61%  --   --       --       6.17%
  Variable rate.........  233   --    --    --   --       --        233        233
  Average interest
   rate................. 5.03%  --    --    --   --       --       5.03%
  Total investment
   securities...........  785   364   432   --   --       --      1,581*     1,577
  Average interest
   rate................. 5.26% 6.02% 6.61%  --   --       --       5.80%
Long-Term Debt
  Fixed rate............  --    --    --    --   200      500       700        663
  Average interest
   rate.................  --    --    --    --  7.03%    7.45%     7.33%
</TABLE>
- --------
*  Includes $4 million of accreted interest to be received at maturity.

   Foreign Currency Risk--The Company transacts business in various foreign
countries. Its primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market
countries in Asia and in certain European countries. During 1998, the Company
employed a foreign currency hedging program utilizing foreign currency forward
exchange contracts and purchased currency options to hedge local currency cash
flows from payroll, inventory, other operating expenditures and fixed asset
purchases in Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia, and Ireland. Under this program,
increases or decreases in the Company's local currency operating expenses and
other cash outflows, as measured in U.S. dollars, partially offset realized
gains and losses on the hedging instruments. The goal of this hedging program
was to economically guarantee or lock in the exchange rates on the Company's
foreign currency cash outflows rather than to eliminate the possibility of
short-term earnings volatility. Based on uncertainty in the Southeast Asian
foreign currency markets, the Company has temporarily suspended purchasing
foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts for the Thai baht,
Malaysian ringgit and Singapore dollar. The Company does not use foreign
currency forward exchange contracts or purchased currency options for trading
purposes.

   Under the Company's foreign currency hedging program, gains and losses
related to qualified hedges of firm commitments and anticipated transactions
were deferred and recognized in income or as adjustments of carrying amounts
when the hedged transaction occurred. All other foreign currency hedge
contracts were marked-to-market and unrealized gains and losses were included
in current period net income. Because not all economic hedges qualified as
accounting hedges, certain unrealized gains and losses were recognized in
income in advance of the actual foreign currency cash flows. This mismatch of
accounting gains and losses and foreign currency cash flows was especially
pronounced during the first and second quarters of fiscal 1998 as a result of
the declines in value of the Thai baht and Malaysian ringgit, relative to the
U.S. dollar. This mismatch resulted in a pre-tax charge of $76 million for the
year ended July 3, 1998.

   The table below provides information as of July 2, 1999 about the Company's
derivative financial instruments, comprised of foreign currency forward
exchange contracts and purchased currency options. The information is provided
in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts, as presented in the Company's financial
statements.

                                       42
<PAGE>

For foreign currency forward exchange contracts, the table presents the
notional amounts (at the contract exchange rates) and the weighted average
contractual foreign currency exchange rates. As of July 3, 1998, the Company
had effectively closed out all of its foreign currency forward exchange
contracts by purchasing offsetting contracts. The amounts listed below
represent forward exchange contracts and offsets for which Seagate did not have
a legal right of offset. Seagate would not have incurred any incremental
accounting loss as of July 3, 1998 if any party had failed to perform. This was
because the estimated fair value of the offsetting forward sales contracts was
effectively zero. As of July 2, 1999, the Company had no outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange or purchased currency option contracts.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           Notional            Average          Estimated
                            Amount          Contract Rate      Fair Value*
                          -------------    ----------------   --------------
                           In millions, except average contract rate
<S>                       <C>              <C>                <C>
As of July 3, 1998
Foreign currency forward
 exchange contracts:
  Malaysian ringgit:
    Forward purchase
     contracts..........    $          40               3.10     $         (11)
    Forward sales
     contracts..........              (29)              4.24                --
                            -------------                        -------------
                            $          11                        $         (11)
  Singapore dollar:
    Forward purchase
     contracts..........    $          52               1.51     $          (7)
    Forward sales
     contract...........              (45)              1.73                --
                            -------------                        -------------
                            $           7                        $          (7)
  Irish punt:
    Forward purchase
     contracts..........    $           9               1.43     $           0
    Forward sales
     contracts..........                9               1.46                 0
                            -------------                        -------------
                            $         --                         $         --
</TABLE>
- --------
*Equivalent to the unrealized net gain (loss) on existing contracts.

                                       43
<PAGE>

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (In millions, except share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                July 2,  July 3,
                                                                 1999     1998
                                                                -------  -------
<S>                                                             <C>      <C>
Assets
Cash and cash equivalents...................................... $  396   $  666
Short-term investments.........................................  1,227    1,161
Accounts receivable, net.......................................    872      799
Inventories....................................................    451      508
Deferred income taxes..........................................    252      243
Other current assets...........................................    114      238
                                                                ------   ------
  Total Current Assets.........................................  3,312    3,615
                                                                ------   ------
Property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net............  1,687    1,669
Investment in VERITAS Software, net............................  1,745      --
Goodwill and other intangibles, net............................    144      169
Other assets...................................................    184      192
                                                                ------   ------
  Total Assets................................................. $7,072   $5,645
                                                                ======   ======
Liabilities
Accounts payable............................................... $  714   $  577
Accrued employee compensation..................................    205      175
Accrued expenses...............................................    414      405
Accrued warranty...............................................    163      197
Accrued income taxes...........................................     43       20
Current portion of long-term debt..............................      1        1
                                                                ------   ------
  Total Current Liabilities....................................  1,540    1,375
                                                                ------   ------
Deferred income taxes..........................................  1,103      435
Accrued warranty...............................................    126      161
Other liabilities..............................................     37       33
Long-term debt, less current portion...........................    703      704
                                                                ------   ------
  Total Liabilities............................................  3,509    2,708
                                                                ------   ------
Commitments and Contingencies
Stockholders' Equity
Preferred stock, $.01 par value--1,000,000 shares authorized;
 none issued or outstanding....................................    --       --
Common stock, $.01 par value--600,000,000 shares authorized;
 shares issued--251,890,019 in 1999 and 1998...................      3        3
Additional paid-in capital.....................................  1,991    1,929
Retained earnings..............................................  2,355    1,298
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)..................     (7)     --
Deferred compensation..........................................    (43)     (55)
Treasury common stock at cost; 23,172,130
 shares in 1999 and 7,132,867 shares in 1998...................   (736)    (238)
                                                                ------   ------
  Total Stockholders' Equity...................................  3,563    2,937
                                                                ------   ------
  Total Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity................... $7,072   $5,645
                                                                ======   ======
</TABLE>

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       44
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                      (In millions, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      For The Years Ended
                                                    --------------------------
                                                    July 2,  July 3,  June 27,
                                                     1999     1998      1997
                                                    -------  -------  --------
<S>                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
Revenue............................................ $ 6,802  $ 6,819  $ 8,940
Cost of sales......................................   5,250    5,830    6,918
Product development................................     581      585      459
Marketing and administrative.......................     534      502      493
Amortization of goodwill and other intangibles.....      39       40       50
In-process research and development................       2      223        3
Restructuring......................................      60      347       (7)
Unusual items......................................      78      (22)     166
                                                    -------  -------  -------
  Total Operating Expenses.........................   6,544    7,505    8,082
                                                    -------  -------  -------
  Income (Loss) from Operations....................     258     (686)     858
Interest income....................................     102       98       92
Interest expense...................................     (48)     (51)     (35)
Gain on contribution of NSMG to VERITAS, net.......   1,670      --       --
Activity related to equity interest in VERITAS.....    (119)     --       --
Other, net.........................................      10      (65)     (24)
                                                    -------  -------  -------
  Other Income (Expense), net......................   1,615      (18)      33
Income (loss) before income taxes..................   1,873     (704)     891
Benefit (provision) for income taxes...............    (697)     174     (233)
                                                    -------  -------  -------
  Net Income (Loss)................................ $ 1,176  $  (530) $   658
                                                    =======  =======  =======
Net income (loss) per share:
  Basic............................................ $  4.94  $ (2.17) $  2.82
  Diluted..........................................    4.53    (2.17)    2.62
Number of shares used in per share computations:
  Basic............................................   237.9    243.6    233.6
  Diluted..........................................   243.1    243.6    257.9
</TABLE>

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       45
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (In millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      For The Years Ended
                                                    --------------------------
                                                    July 2,  July 3,  June 27,
                                                     1999     1998      1997
                                                    -------  -------  --------
<S>                                                 <C>      <C>      <C>
Operating Activities
Net income (loss).................................. $ 1,176  $  (530) $   658
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss)
 to net cash provided by operating activities:
  Depreciation and amortization....................     696      664      607
  Deferred income taxes............................     661      (33)      96
  In-process research and development..............       2      223        3
  Non-cash portion of restructuring charge.........      35      203      --
  Activity related to equity interest in VERITAS...     119      --       --
  Gain on contribution of NSMG to VERITAS, net.....  (1,670)     --       --
  Amstrad litigation charge........................     --       --       153
  Other, net.......................................      36       41       79
  Changes in operating assets and liabilities:
    Accounts receivable............................    (114)     242       30
    Inventories....................................      29      213      (84)
    Accounts payable...............................     104     (278)     169
    Accrued expenses, employee compensation and
     warranty......................................    (124)    (262)     (63)
    Accrued income taxes...........................      52      (37)      72
    Other assets and liabilities...................     198       54      160
                                                    -------  -------  -------
Net cash provided by operating activities..........   1,200      500    1,880
Investing Activities
Acquisition of property, equipment and leasehold
 improvements, net.................................    (603)    (709)    (941)
Purchases of short-term investments................  (6,596)  (4,810)  (4,473)
Maturities and sales of short-term investments.....   6,519    4,889    3,907
Acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired...     --      (204)     --
Equity investments.................................      (5)     (27)     (44)
Other, net.........................................     (21)      13       19
                                                    -------  -------  -------
  Net cash used in investing activities............    (706)    (848)  (1,532)
Financing Activities
Issuance of long-term debt.........................     --       --       699
Repayment of long-term debt........................     --        (1)      (8)
Sale of common stock...............................      98       67       84
Purchase of treasury stock.........................    (859)    (105)    (582)
                                                    -------  -------  -------
  Net cash provided by (used in) financing
   activities......................................    (761)     (39)     193
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
 equivalents.......................................      (3)       6        2
                                                    -------  -------  -------
    Increase (decrease) in cash and cash
     equivalents...................................    (270)    (381)     543
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
 year..............................................     666    1,047      504
                                                    -------  -------  -------
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year... $   396  $   666  $ 1,047
                                                    =======  =======  =======
</TABLE>

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       46
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      For the years ended July 2, 1999, July 3, 1998, and June 27, 1997
                                 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 Common Stock
                                 -------------
                                                                    Accumulated
                                                                       Other
                                               Additional             Compre-                Treasury
                                                Paid-In   Retained    hensive     Deferred    Common
                                 Shares Amount  Capital   Earnings    Income    Compensation  Stock    Total
                                 ------ ------ ---------- --------  ----------- ------------ -------- -------
                                                             In millions
<S>                              <C>    <C>    <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>          <C>      <C>
Balance at June 28, 1996.......   213      2      1,133     1,390        (1)         (58)        --     2,466
Comprehensive income
 Net income....................                               658                                         658
 Unrealized gain on marketable
  securities...................                                           1                                 1
 Foreign currency translation
  Comprehensive income.........                                         --                                --
                                                                                                      -------
                                                                                                          659
Purchase of treasury stock at
 cost..........................                                                                 (582)    (582)
Sale of stock..................     4                42       (71)                               113       84
Issuance of restricted stock,
 net of cancellations..........                       7        (7)                    (7)          7      --
Amortization of deferred
 compensation..................                                                        8                    8
Income tax benefit from stock
 options exercised.............                      52                                                    52
Conversion of debentures to
 common stock..................    35      1        669       (24)                               143      789
                                  ---    ---    -------   -------       ---         ----      ------  -------
Balance at June 27, 1997.......   252      3      1,903     1,946       --           (57)       (319)   3,476
Comprehensive income
 Net loss......................                              (530)                                       (530)
 Unrealized gain on marketable
  securities...................                                           1                                 1
 Foreign currency translation..                                          (1)                               (1)
                                                                                                      -------
 Comprehensive income (loss)...                                                                          (530)
Purchase of treasury stock at
 cost..........................                                                                 (105)    (105)
Sale of stock..................                               (98)                               166       68
Issuance of restricted stock,
 net of cancellations..........                       6       (20)                    (6)         20      --
Amortization of deferred
 compensation..................                                                        8                    8
Income tax benefit from stock
 options exercised.............                      12                                                    12
Other stock-based
 compensation..................                       8                                                     8
                                  ---    ---    -------   -------       ---         ----      ------  -------
Balance at July 3, 1998........   252      3      1,929     1,298       --           (55)       (238)   2,937
Comprehensive income
 Net income....................                     --      1,176                                       1,176
 Unrealized gain on marketable
  securities...................                                          (6)                               (6)
 Foreign currency translation..                                          (1)                               (1)
                                                                                                      -------
 Comprehensive income..........                                                                         1,169
Purchase of treasury stock at
 cost..........................                                                                 (859)    (859)
Sale of stock..................                              (106)                               204       98
Issuance of restricted stock,
 net of cancellations..........                      (2)       (6)                     2           6      --
Amortization of deferred
 compensation..................                                                       10                   10
Income tax benefit from stock
 options exercised.............                      26                                                    26
Other stock-based
 compensation..................                      38        (7)                               151      182
                                  ---    ---    -------   -------       ---         ----      ------  -------
Balance at July 2, 1999........   252    $ 3    $ 1,991   $ 2,355       $(7)        $(43)     $ (736) $ 3,563
                                  ===    ===    =======   =======       ===         ====      ======  =======
</TABLE>

                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       47
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

   Nature of Operations--Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company" or "Seagate")
designs, manufactures and markets products for storage, retrieval and
management of data on computer and data communications systems. The Company has
three operating segments, disc drives, software and tape drives, however, only
the disc drive and software businesses are reportable segments under the
criteria of SFAS No. 131. The Company sells its products to original equipment
manufacturers ("OEM") for inclusion in their computer systems or subsystems,
and to distributors who typically sell to small OEMs, dealers, system
integrators and other resellers.

   Accounting Estimates--The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ materially from
those estimates.

   The actual results with regard to warranty expenditures could have a
material unfavorable impact on the Company if the actual rate of unit failure
or the cost to repair a unit is greater than what the Company has used in
estimating the warranty expense accrual.

   The actual results with regard to restructuring charges could have a
material unfavorable impact on the Company if the actual expenditures to
implement the restructuring plan are greater than what the Company estimated
when establishing the restructuring accrual.

   Given the volatility of the markets in which the Company participates, the
Company makes adjustments to the value of inventory based on estimates of
potentially excess and obsolete inventory after considering forecasted demand
and forecasted average selling prices. However, forecasts are subject to
revisions, cancellations, and rescheduling. Actual demand will inevitably
differ from such anticipated demand, and such differences may have a material
effect on the financial statements.

   Basis of Consolidation--The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries
after eliminations. Total outstanding minority interests are not material for
any period presented.

   The Company operates and reports financial results on a fiscal year of 52 or
53 weeks ending on the Friday closest to June 30. Accordingly, fiscal 1999
ended on July 2, 1999, fiscal 1998 ended on July 3, 1998 and fiscal 1997 ended
on June 27, 1997. Fiscal year 1999 comprised 52 weeks, fiscal year 1998
comprised 53 weeks and fiscal year 1997 comprised 52 weeks. All references to
years in these notes to consolidated financial statements represent fiscal
years unless otherwise noted.

   Certain amounts in prior year financial statements and notes thereto have
been reclassified to conform to current year presentation.

   Foreign Currency Translation--The U.S. dollar is the functional currency for
most of the Company's foreign operations. Gains and losses on the translation
into U.S. dollars of amounts denominated in foreign currencies are included in
net income for those operations whose functional currency is the U.S. dollar
and as a separate component of stockholders' equity for those operations whose
functional currency is the local currency.

   Derivative Financial Instruments--Seagate transacts business in various
foreign countries. Its primary currency cash flows are in emerging market
countries in Asia and in certain European countries. During 1998 and 1997,
Seagate employed a foreign currency hedging program utilizing foreign currency
forward exchange

                                       48
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

contracts and purchased currency options to hedge local currency cash flows for
payroll, inventory, other operating expenditures and fixed asset purchases in
Singapore, Thailand, and Malaysia. These local currency cash flows were
designated as either firm commitments or as anticipated transactions depending
upon the contractual or legal nature of local currency commitments in
Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and Northern Ireland. Anticipated transactions
were hedged with purchased currency options and with foreign currency forward
exchange contracts; firm commitments were hedged with foreign currency forward
exchange contracts.

   The Company may enter into foreign currency forward exchange and option
contracts to manage exposure related to certain foreign currency commitments,
certain foreign currency denominated balance sheet positions and anticipated
foreign currency denominated expenditures. The Company does not enter into
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Foreign currency forward
exchange contracts designated and effective as hedges of firm commitments and
option contracts designated and effective as hedges of firm commitments or
anticipated transactions are treated as hedges for accounting purposes. Gains
and losses related to qualified accounting hedges of firm commitments or
anticipated transactions are deferred and are recognized in income or as
adjustments to the carrying amounts when the hedged transaction occurs. All
other foreign currency forward exchange contracts are marked-to-market and
unrealized gains and losses are included in current period net income as a
component of other income (expense).

   Premiums on foreign currency option contracts used to hedge firm commitments
and anticipated transactions are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
life of the contract. Forward points on foreign currency forward exchange
contracts which qualify as hedges of firm commitments are recognized in income
as adjustments to the carrying amount when the hedged transaction occurs.

   The Company may, from time to time, adjust its foreign currency hedging
position by taking out additional contracts or by terminating or offsetting
existing foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts. These
adjustments may result from changes in the Company's underlying foreign
currency exposures or from fundamental shifts in the economics of particular
exchange rates, as occurred in the first and second quarters of fiscal 1998
with respect to the Thai baht, Malaysian ringgit and Singapore dollar. For
foreign currency forward exchange and option contracts qualifying as accounting
hedges, gains or losses on terminated contracts and offsetting contracts are
deferred and are recognized in income as adjustments to the carrying amount of
the hedged item in the period the hedged transaction occurs. For foreign
currency forward exchange and option contracts not qualifying as accounting
hedges, gains and losses on terminated contracts, or on contracts that are
offset, are recognized in income in the period of contract termination or
offset.

   Revenue Recognition and Product Warranty--Revenue from sales of products is
generally recognized upon shipment to customers. The Company warrants its
products against defects in design, materials and workmanship generally for
three to five years depending upon the capacity category of the disc drive,
with the higher capacity products being warranted for the longer periods. A
provision for estimated future costs relating to warranty expense is recorded
when products are shipped.

   The Company's software revenue is primarily derived from the sale of product
licenses, software maintenance, technical support, training and consulting.
During the first quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company began recognizing license
revenue in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountant's Statement of Position 97-2, "Software Revenue Recognition."
Revenue from software license agreements is primarily recognized at the time of
product delivery, provided that fees are fixed or determinable, evidence of an
arrangement exists, collectibility is probable and the Company has vendor-
specific objective evidence of fair value. Revenue from resellers, including
VARs, OEMs and distributors, are primarily recognized at the time of product
delivery to the reseller. The Company's policy is to defer such revenue if
resale contingencies exist. Some of the factors that are considered to
determine the existence of such contingencies include payment

                                       49
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

terms, collectibility and past history with the customer. Product returns are
reserved for in accordance with SFAS 48. Such returns are estimated based on
historical return rates. The Company considers other factors such as fixed and
determinable fees, resale contingencies, arms length contract terms and the
ability to reasonably estimate returns to ensure compliance with SFAS 48.
Service revenue from customer maintenance fees for ongoing customer support and
product updates is recognized ratably over the maintenance term, which is
typically 12 months. Service revenue from training and consulting is recognized
when such services are performed.

   Inventory--Inventories are valued at the lower of standard cost (which
approximates actual cost using the first-in, first-out method) or market.

   Property, Equipment, and Leasehold Improvements--Land, equipment, buildings
and leasehold improvements are stated at cost. Equipment and buildings are
depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of
the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method
over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the remaining term of
the lease.

   Advertising Expense--The cost of advertising is expensed as incurred.
Advertising costs were $56 million, $68 million and $41 million in 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

   Stock-Based Compensation--The Company accounts for employee stock-based
compensation under Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees" ("APBO 25") and related interpretations. Pro forma
net income and net income per share are disclosures required by Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" ("SFAS 123") and are included in the Stock-Based Benefit Plans--
Pro Forma Information note to the consolidated financial statements.

   Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards--In June 1997, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("SFAS 130"). SFAS 130
requires that all items that are required to be recognized under accounting
standards as components of comprehensive income be reported in a financial
statement that is displayed with the same prominence as other financial
statements. SFAS 130 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
1997 and was adopted by the Company for its fiscal 1999. The adoption of SFAS
130 did not have a material impact on the Company's financial statements.

   Also in June 1997, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" ("SFAS 131"). SFAS 131 replaces Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 14 and changes the way public companies report segment
information. SFAS 131 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December
15, 1997 and was adopted by the Company for its fiscal 1999 which commenced
July 4, 1998. The adoption of SFAS 131 did not have a material impact on the
Company's financial statements.

   In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS
133"). This statement establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments and for hedging activities. It requires that derivatives
be recognized in the balance sheet at fair value and specifies the accounting
for changes in fair value. SFAS 133 is effective for all fiscal quarters of
fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999 and will be adopted by the Company
for its fiscal year 2000. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact
of this pronouncement on its financial statements.

   In March 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued
Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use" ("SOP 98-1").

                                       50
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

SOP 98-1 provides guidance on capitalization of the costs incurred for computer
software developed or obtained for internal use. It also provides guidance for
determining whether computer software is internal-use
software and on accounting for the proceeds of computer software originally
developed or obtained for internal use and then subsequently sold to the
public. SOP 98-1 will be effective for Seagate's fiscal year ending June 30,
2000. The Company is in the process of assessing the impact of this
pronouncement on its financial statements.

   In December 1998, the AICPA issued SOP 98-9, Modification of SOP 97-2,
Software Revenue Recognition, with Respect to Certain Transactions. SOP 98-9
amends SOP 97-2 Software Revenue Recognition to require recognition of revenue
using the "residual method" when certain criteria are met. Seagate Technology
will be required to implement these provisions of SOP 98-9 for its fiscal year
ending June 30, 2000. SOP 98-9 also amends SOP 98-4, an earlier amendment to
SOP 97-2, which extended the deferral of the application of certain passages of
SOP 97-2 provided by SOP 98-4. The Company is in the process of assessing the
impact of this pronouncement on its financial statements.

   Cash, Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments--The Company considers all
highly liquid investments with a remaining maturity of 90 days or less at the
time of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are carried at cost,
which approximates fair value. The Company's short-term investments primarily
comprise readily marketable debt securities with remaining maturities of more
than 90 days at the time of purchase. The Company has classified its entire
investment portfolio as available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are
classified as cash equivalents or short-term investments and are stated at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses included in stockholders' equity. The
amortized cost of debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and
accretion of discounts to maturity. Such amortization and accretion are
included in interest income. Realized gains and losses are included in other
income (expense). The cost of securities sold is based on the specific
identification method.

   Concentration of Credit Risk--The Company's customer base for disc drive
products is concentrated with a small number of systems manufacturers and
distributors. Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk are primarily accounts receivable, cash
equivalents and short-term investments. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of its customers' financial condition and, generally, requires no
collateral from its customers. The allowance for noncollection of accounts
receivable is based upon the expected collectibility of all accounts
receivable. The Company places its cash equivalents and short-term investments
in investment grade, short-term debt instruments and limits the amount of
credit exposure to any one commercial issuer.

                                       51
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Financial Instruments

   The following is a summary of the fair value of available-for-sale
securities at July 2, 1999 and July 3, 1998:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      July 2, 1999 July 3, 1998
                                                      ------------ ------------
                                                             In millions
      <S>                                             <C>          <C>
      Money market mutual funds......................   $    74      $    71
      U.S. government and agency obligations.........       310          398
      Repurchase agreements..........................       --            81
      Auction rate preferred stock...................       222          167
      Municipal bonds................................       109          102
      Corporate securities...........................       514          612
      Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities....       300          152
      Euro time deposits.............................        48          149
                                                        -------      -------
                                                        $ 1,577      $ 1,732
                                                        =======      =======
      Included in short-term investments.............   $ 1,227      $ 1,161
      Included in cash and cash equivalents..........       350          571
                                                        -------      -------
                                                        $ 1,577      $ 1,732
                                                        =======      =======
</TABLE>

   The fair value of all available-for-sale securities approximates amortized
cost. Gross realized and unrealized gains and losses on the sale of available-
for-sale securities were not material for each of the three years in the period
ended July 2, 1999.

   The fair value of the Company's investment in debt securities, by
contractual maturity, is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       July 2, 1999 July 3, 1998
                                                       ------------ ------------
                                                              In millions
      <S>                                              <C>          <C>
      Due in less than 1 year.........................   $   486      $   771
      Due in 1 to 3 years.............................       794          723
                                                         -------      -------
                                                         $ 1,280      $ 1,494
                                                         =======      =======
</TABLE>

   Fair Value Disclosures--The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents
approximates fair value. The fair values of short-term investments, notes,
debentures (see Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit footnote) and foreign
currency forward exchange and option contracts are estimated based on quoted
market prices.

   The carrying values and fair values of the Company's financial instruments
are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            July 2, 1999       July 3, 1998
                                         ------------------ ------------------
                                                  Estimated          Estimated
                                         Carrying   fair    Carrying   fair
                                          amount    value    amount    value
                                         -------- --------- -------- ---------
                                                      In millions
<S>                                      <C>      <C>       <C>      <C>
Cash and cash equivalents...............  $  396   $  396    $  666   $  666
Short-term investments..................   1,227    1,227     1,161    1,161
7.125% senior notes, due 2004...........    (200)    (194)     (200)    (199)
7.37% senior notes, due 2007............    (200)    (189)     (200)    (198)
7.45% senior debentures, due 2037.......    (200)    (188)     (200)    (198)
7.875% senior debentures, due 2017......    (100)     (92)     (100)     (98)
Italian Lira debentures, 14.65% to
 15.25%.................................     --       --         (1)      (1)
Foreign currency forward exchange and
 option contracts.......................     --       --        (18)     (18)
</TABLE>


                                       52
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

   Derivative Financial Instruments--The Company may enter into foreign
currency forward exchange and option contracts to manage exposure related to
certain foreign currency commitments, certain foreign currency denominated
balance sheet positions and anticipated foreign currency denominated
expenditures. The Company does not enter into derivative financial instruments
for trading purposes. Based on uncertainty in the Southeast Asian foreign
currency markets, beginning in the second quarter of 1998 the Company
temporarily suspended its hedging program. At July 3, 1998, the Company had
effectively closed out all of its foreign currency forward exchange contracts
by purchasing offsetting contracts. As of July 2, 1999, the Company had no
outstanding foreign currency forward exchange or purchased currency option
contracts.

   Net foreign currency transaction losses included in the determination of net
income (loss) were $1 million, $252 million and $2 million for 1999, 1998, and
1997, respectively. The Company transacts business in various foreign
countries. Its primary foreign currency cash flows are in emerging market
countries in Asia and in certain European countries. During 1998 and 1997, the
Company employed a foreign currency hedging program utilizing foreign currency
forward exchange contracts and purchased currency options to hedge local
currency cash flows for payroll, inventory, other operating expenditures and
fixed asset purchases in Singapore, Thailand and Malaysia. During fiscal 1998
the Singapore dollar, Thai baht, and Malaysian ringgit declined in value
relative to the U.S. dollar. The transaction loss of $252 million for fiscal
1998 primarily included losses incurred on closing out these foreign currency
forward exchange contracts.

Accounts Receivable

   Accounts receivable are summarized below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   1999   1998
                                                                   -----  -----
                                                                   In millions
      <S>                                                          <C>    <C>
      Accounts receivable......................................... $ 925  $ 853
      Less allowance for noncollection............................   (53)   (54)
                                                                   -----  -----
                                                                   $ 872  $ 799
                                                                   =====  =====
</TABLE>

Inventories

   Inventories are summarized below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     1999  1998
                                                                     ----- -----
                                                                     In millions
      <S>                                                            <C>   <C>
      Components.................................................... $ 143 $ 172
      Work-in-process...............................................    54    87
      Finished goods................................................   254   249
                                                                     ----- -----
                                                                     $ 451 $ 508
                                                                     ===== =====
</TABLE>

                                       53
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Property, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements

   Property, equipment and leasehold improvements consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                       Estimated Useful Life   1999     1998
                                       ---------------------- -------  ------
                                                               In millions
<S>                                    <C>                    <C>      <C>
Land..................................                        $    40  $   33
Equipment.............................          1 1/2-4 years   2,365   2,187
Building and leasehold improvements... Life of lease-30 years     932     854
Construction in progress..............                            196     168
                                                              -------  ------
                                                                3,533   3,242
Less accumulated depreciation and
 amortization.........................                         (1,846) (1,573)
                                                              -------  ------
                                                              $ 1,687  $1,669
                                                              =======  ======
</TABLE>

   Equipment and leasehold improvements include assets under capitalized
leases. Amortization of leasehold improvements is included in depreciation
expense. Depreciation expense was $574 million, $549 million and $451 million
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Goodwill and Other Intangibles

   Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of acquired companies
over the estimated fair value of the tangible and specifically identified
intangible net assets acquired. Other intangible assets consist of trademarks,
assembled workforces, distribution networks, developed technology, customer
bases, and covenants not to compete related to acquisitions accounted for by
the purchase method. Amortization of purchased intangibles, other than acquired
developed technology, is provided on the straight-line basis over the
respective useful lives of the assets ranging from 36 to 60 months for
trademarks, 24 to 48 months for assembled workforces and distribution networks,
12 to 36 months for customer bases and 18 to 24 months for covenants not to
compete. In-process research and development without alternative future use is
expensed when acquired.

   In accordance with SFAS 121, the carrying value of other intangibles and
related goodwill is reviewed if the facts and circumstances suggest that they
may be permanently impaired. If this review indicates these assets' carrying
value will not be recoverable, as determined based on the undiscounted net cash
flows of the entity acquired over the remaining amortization period, the
Company's carrying value is reduced to its estimated fair value, first by
reducing goodwill, and second by reducing long-term assets and other
intangibles (generally based on an estimate of discounted future net cash
flows). Goodwill and other intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line
basis over periods ranging from two to fifteen years. Accumulated amortization
was $177 million and $201 million as of July 2, 1999 and July 3, 1998,
respectively.

   Developed Technology. The Company applies Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 86 ("SFAS 86", "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to
Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed," to software technologies developed
internally, acquired in business acquisitions, and purchased.

   Internal development costs are included in research and development and are
expensed as incurred. SFAS 86 requires the capitalization of certain internal
development costs once technological feasibility is established, which based on
the Company's development process generally occurs upon the completion of a
working model. As the time period between the completion of a working model and
the general availability of software has been short, capitalization of internal
development costs has not been material to date. Capitalized costs are
amortized based on the greater of the straight-line basis over the estimated
product life (generally 30 to 48 months) or the ratio of current revenue to the
total of current and anticipated future revenue.

                                       54
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Purchased developed technology is amortized based on the greater of the
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life (30 to 48 months) or the
ratio of current revenue to the total of current and anticipated future
revenue. The recoverability of the carrying value of purchased developed
technology is reviewed periodically. The carrying value of developed technology
is compared to the estimated future gross revenue from that product reduced by
the estimated future costs of completing and disposing of that product,
including the costs of performing maintenance and customer support (net
undiscounted cash flows) and to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the
undiscounted cash flows the difference is written off.

Long-Term Debt and Lines of Credit

   Long-term debt consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       1999  1998
                                                                      ----- -----
                                                                      In millions
<S>                                                                   <C>   <C>
7.125% senior notes, due 2004........................................ $ 200 $ 200
7.37% senior notes, due 2007.........................................   200   200
7.45% senior debentures, due 2037....................................   200   200
7.875% senior debentures, due 2017...................................   100   100
Italian lira debentures, 14.65% to 15.25% notes and loans due through
 1999................................................................   --      1
Capitalized lease obligations with interest at 14% to 19.25%
 collateralized by certain manufacturing equipment and buildings.....     4     4
                                                                      ----- -----
                                                                        704   705
Less current portion.................................................     1     1
                                                                      ----- -----
                                                                      $ 703 $ 704
                                                                      ===== =====
</TABLE>

   At July 2, 1999, future minimum principal payments on long-term debt and
capitalized lease obligations were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               In millions
            <S>                                <C>
            2000.............................     $  1
            2001.............................      --
            2002.............................        1
            2003.............................        1
            2004.............................      201
            After 2004.......................      500
                                                  ----
                                                  $704
                                                  ====
</TABLE>

   The Company's 7.125% senior notes due 2004, 7.37% senior notes due 2007 and
7.875% senior debentures due 2017 are redeemable at the option of the Company
at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of their
principal amount plus accrued interest or (ii) the sum of the present values of
the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted to the
date of redemption at a discount rate (the "discount rate") as set forth in the
indenture governing the notes and debentures plus 10 basis points. The
Company's 7.45% senior debentures due 2037 are redeemable at the option of the
Company at any time, at a redemption price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of
their principal amount plus accrued interest, (ii) the sum of the present
values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest discounted
to the date of redemption at the discount rate plus 10 basis points, calculated
as if the principal amount were payable in full on March 1, 2009, or (iii) the
sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and
interest discounted to the date of redemption at the discount rate plus 10
basis points. In addition, the

                                       55
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

Company's 7.45% senior debentures due 2037 will be redeemable on March 1, 2009,
at the option of the holders thereof, at 100% of their principal amount,
together with interest payable to the date of redemption. The Company's 7.125%
senior notes due 2004, 7.37% senior notes due 2007 and 7.875% senior debentures
due 2017 will not be redeemable at the option of the holders thereof prior to
maturity. These securities were issued in February 1997 in an offering
registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.

   As of July 2, 1999, the Company had committed lines of credit of $84 million
that can be used for standby letters of credit or bankers' guarantees. At July
2, 1999, $67 million of these lines of credit were utilized.

Net Income Per Share

   The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net
income (loss) per share.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         For the years ended
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       July 2,  July 3,  June 27,
                                                        1999     1998      1997
                                                       -------  -------  --------
                                                       In millions, except per
                                                             share data
<S>                                                    <C>      <C>     <C>
Basic Net Income (Loss) Per Share Computation
Numerator:
  Net income (loss)................................... $1,176   $ (530)     $ 658
                                                       ------   ------      -----
Denominator:
  Weighted average number of common shares outstanding
   during the period..................................  237.9    243.6      233.6
                                                       ------   ------      -----
Basic net income (loss) per share..................... $ 4.94   $(2.17)     $2.82
                                                       ======   ======      =====
Diluted Net Income (Loss) Per Share Computation
Numerator:
  Net income (loss)................................... $1,176   $ (530)     $ 658
  Add convertible subordinated debentures interest,
   net of income tax effect...........................    --       --          17
  Adjustment to net income for dilutive effect of
   subsidiary Seagate Software, Inc.'s outstanding
   stock options......................................    (75)     --         --
                                                       ------   ------      -----
    Total............................................. $1,101   $ (530)     $ 675
                                                       ------   ------      -----
Denominator:
  Weighted average number of common shares outstanding
   during the period..................................  237.9    243.6      233.6
  Incremental common shares attributable to exercise
   of outstanding options (assuming proceeds would be
   used to purchase treasury stock)...................    5.2      --         7.4
  Incremental common shares attributable to conversion
   of convertible subordinated debentures.............    --       --        16.9
                                                       ------   ------      -----
    Total.............................................  243.1    243.6      257.9
                                                       ------   ------      -----
Diluted net income (loss) per share................... $ 4.53   $(2.17)     $2.62
                                                       ======   ======      =====
</TABLE>

   Options to purchase 6.2 million, 9.7 million and 1.3 million shares of
common stock were outstanding during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, but
were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because
the options' exercise price was greater than the average market price of the
common shares and, therefore, the effect would be antidilutive.

                                       56
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Employee Profit Sharing and Executive Bonus Plans

   The Company allocates a certain percentage of adjusted quarterly pretax
profits to its Employee Profit Sharing Plan which is currently distributed to
employees, excluding officers, employed for the full quarter. The Company also
allocates a certain percentage of adjusted quarterly pretax profits to its
Executive Bonus Plan. Distributions to corporate officers under this plan are
subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. Charges to operations for
distributions to employees and/or corporate officers under these Plans during
1999, 1998 and 1997 were $27 million, $3 million and $115 million,
respectively.

Tax-Deferred Savings Plan

   The Company has a tax-deferred savings plan, the Seagate Technology, Inc.
Savings and Investment Plan ("the 40l(k) plan"), for the benefit of qualified
employees. The 40l(k) plan is designed to provide employees with an
accumulation of funds at retirement. Qualified employees may elect to make
contributions to the 401(k) plan on a monthly basis. The Company may make
annual contributions to the 401(k) plan at the discretion of the Board of
Directors. During the fiscal year ended July 2, 1999, the Company made
contributions totaling approximately $14 million to the 401(k) plan. No
material contributions were made by the Company during fiscal years 1998 and
1997.

Stock-Based Benefit Plans

   Stock Option Plans--Options granted under the Company's stock option plans
are granted at fair market value, expire ten years from the date of the grant
and generally vest in four equal annual installments, commencing one year from
the date of the grant.

   Following is a summary of stock option activity for the three years ended
July 2, 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         Options Outstanding
                                                      --------------------------
                                                      Number of Weighted Average
                                                       Shares    Exercise Price
                                                      --------- ----------------
                                                          Shares in millions
<S>                                                   <C>       <C>
Balance June 28, 1996................................    23.7        $16.91
Granted..............................................     6.0         36.31
Exercised............................................    (5.2)        12.15
Canceled.............................................    (2.5)        20.42
                                                        -----        ------
Balance June 27, 1997................................    22.0         22.92
Granted..............................................    18.3         27.10
Exercised............................................    (2.4)        13.34
Canceled.............................................   (11.9)        32.62
                                                        -----        ------
Balance July 3, 1998.................................    26.0         22.30
Granted..............................................    14.1         23.98
Exercised............................................    (4.3)        15.15
Canceled.............................................    (1.9)        25.49
                                                        -----        ------
Balance July 2, 1999.................................    33.9        $23.73
                                                        =====        ======
</TABLE>

   In fiscal 1998, the Company offered to all optionees below the level of
Senior Vice President, who held options with an exercise price higher than the
prevailing fair market value of the Company's common stock the right to
exchange their options for new options exercisable at such fair market value.
In connection with this transaction, 8.4 million options were exchanged. The
number of options shown as granted and canceled in the above table reflects
this exchange of options. Such options had a weighted average exercise price
before repricing of $34.20 and the new options were granted at a weighted
average price of $24.45.

                                       57
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Options available for grant were 5.0 million at July 2, 1999; 13.6 million
at July 3, 1998; and 5.1 million at June 27, 1997. On October 30, 1997, the
stockholders approved an amendment to the 1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan to
increase the number of shares of common stock reserved for issuance thereunder
by 15 million.

   The following table summarizes information about options outstanding at July
2, 1999.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                  Outstanding Options               Exercisable Options
                      ------------------------------------------- ------------------------
                                  Weighted Average                               Weighted
Range of exercise        Number   Contractual Life Weighted Average  Number      Average
     prices            of Shares    (in years)      Exercise Price  of Shares Exercise Price
- ----------------      ----------- ---------------- ---------------- --------- --------------
                                                  Shares in millions
<S>                   <C>         <C>              <C>              <C>       <C>
$  .00 - $ 16.63         3.6           4.42            $10.76         3.6        $10.69

 16.82 -   23.88         12.2          8.60             21.85         1.4         21.99

 23.94 -   28.94         14.1          8.12             25.37         5.4         24.95

 29.00 -   51.50          4.0          8.20             35.48         1.3         35.79
                         ----          ----            ------        ----        ------
$  .00 -  $51.50         33.9          7.90            $23.74        11.7        $21.41

</TABLE>

   On March 4, 1998, the Board of Directors approved the adoption of the 1998
Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan and the reservation of 3.5 million shares of
common stock for issuance thereunder.

   Executive Stock Plan--The Company has an Executive Stock Plan under which
senior executives of the Company are granted the right to purchase shares of
the Company's common stock at $.01 per share. The difference between the fair
market value of the shares on the measurement date and the exercise price is
recorded as deferred compensation and is charged to operations over the vesting
period of five or ten years. The Company has the right to repurchase the
restricted stock from an executive upon his or her voluntary or involuntary
termination of employment with the Company for any reason at the same price
paid by the executive. If an executive voluntarily resigns at or above age 65,
the Company may release from the repurchase option, or if his or her employment
terminates as a result of death, disability, termination by the Company other
than for cause or constructive termination within the two-year period following
a change of control, the Company will release from the repurchase option a pro
rata number of shares based on the number of months that have passed since the
grant date divided by the number of months in the vesting period. The following
is a summary of restricted stock activity under the Executive Stock Plan for
the three years ended July 2, 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   Restricted Shares Outstanding
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                        Shares in thousands
<S>                                                <C>
Balance June 28, 1996.............................             2,021
  Granted.........................................               249
  Repurchased.....................................               (85)
                                                               -----
Balance June 27, 1997.............................             2,185
  Granted.........................................               454
  Repurchased.....................................              (254)
                                                               -----
Balance July 3, 1998..............................             2,385
  Granted.........................................               145
  Repurchased.....................................              (216)
                                                               -----
Balance July 2, 1999..............................             2,314
                                                               =====
</TABLE>

                                       58
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   At July 2, 1999, 186,000 shares were available for future grants. In
addition, the Company has a Restricted Stock Plan which also has a deferred
compensation component. Under this plan the deferred compensation is amortized
over a period of seven years. There are two employees remaining in the plan and
no shares are available for future grant. The aggregate amount charged to
operations for amortization of deferred compensation under both plans was $10
million, $8 million and $8 million in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   Stock Purchase Plan--The Company also maintains an Employee Stock Purchase
Plan. A total of 19,600,000 shares of common stock have been authorized for
issuance under the Purchase Plan. The Purchase Plan permits eligible employees
who have completed thirty days of employment prior to the inception of the
offering period to purchase common stock through payroll deductions generally
at the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the
beginning or at the end of each six-month offering period. Under the plan,
1,604,000; 1,348,000 and 1,054,000 shares of common stock were issued in 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

   Common stock reserved for future issuance under the Company's Employee Stock
Purchase Plan aggregated 5,822,000 shares at July 2, 1999.

   Pro Forma Information--The Company has elected to follow APBO 25 and related
interpretations in accounting for its employee stock options because, as
discussed below, the alternative fair value accounting provided for under SFAS
123 requires use of option valuation models that were not developed for use in
valuing employee stock options. Under APBO 25, the Company generally recognized
no compensation expense with respect to such options.

   Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required by SFAS 123 for stock options granted after June 30, 1995 as if the
Company had accounted for its stock options under the fair value method of SFAS
123. The fair value of the Company's stock options was estimated using a Black-
Scholes option valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was
developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no
vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, the Black-Scholes
model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the
expected stock price volatility. Because the Company's stock options granted to
employees have characteristics significantly different from those of traded
options, and because changes in the subjective input assumptions can materially
affect the fair value estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do
not necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its
stock options granted to employees.

   The fair value of the Company's stock options granted to employees was
estimated assuming no expected dividends and the following weighted average
assumptions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1999  1998  1997
                                                               ----  ----  ----
   <S>                                                         <C>   <C>   <C>
   Stock Option Plan Shares
     Expected life (in years)................................. 3.8   3.2   3.5
     Risk-free interest rate.................................. 5.3%  5.5%  6.2%
     Volatility............................................... .56   .45   .45
   Employee Stock Purchase Plan Shares
     Expected life (in years).................................  .5    .6    .5
     Risk-free interest rate.................................. 4.6%  5.5%  5.4%
     Volatility............................................... .80   .63   .46
</TABLE>

                                       59
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The weighted average fair value of stock options granted under the Company's
Stock Option Plans was $11.09, $10.05 and $14.57 per share in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively. The weighted average fair value of shares granted under the
Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan was $10.18, $12.03 and $8.89 per share
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The weighted average purchase price of
shares granted under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan was $22.72,
$26.99 and $27.95 per share in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.
   For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair value of the
options is amortized over the options' vesting period (for stock options) and
the six month purchase period for stock purchases under the Stock Purchase
Plan. The Company's pro forma information follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999  1998   1997
                                                             ------ -----  ----
                                                               In millions,
                                                             except per share
                                                                   data
<S>                                                          <C>    <C>    <C>
Pro forma net income (loss)................................. $1,018 $(600) $610
Pro forma basic net income (loss) per share.................   4.60 (2.46) 2.61
Pro forma diluted net income (loss) per share...............   4.27 (2.46) 2.45
</TABLE>

   The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying SFAS 123 are not likely to
be representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of future years.
Because SFAS 123 is applicable only to options granted subsequent to June 30,
1995, the pro forma effect was not fully reflected in fiscal years prior to
1999.

Income Taxes

   The provision for (benefit from) income taxes consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1999 1998   1997
                                                               ---- -----  ----
                                                                 In millions
<S>                                                            <C>  <C>    <C>
Current Tax Expense (Benefit)
  Federal..................................................... $ 20 $(157) $122
  State.......................................................    1   --      6
  Foreign.....................................................   15    16     9
                                                               ---- -----  ----
                                                                 36  (141)  137
                                                               ---- -----  ----
Deferred Tax Expense (Benefit)
  Federal.....................................................  573   (19)   65
  State.......................................................   86   (20)   14
  Foreign.....................................................    2     6    17
                                                               ---- -----  ----
                                                                661   (33)   96
                                                               ---- -----  ----
Provision for (Benefit from)
  Income Taxes................................................ $697 $(174) $233
                                                               ==== =====  ====
</TABLE>

   The income tax benefit related to the exercise of stock options reduces
taxes currently payable and is credited to additional paid-in capital. Such
amounts approximated $26 million, $12 million, and $52 million for 1999, 1998
and 1997, respectively.

   Income (loss) before income taxes consisted of the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999   1998   1997
                                                             ------- -----  ----
                                                                In millions
<S>                                                          <C>     <C>    <C>
  Federal................................................... $ 1,547 $(778) $ 41
  Foreign...................................................     326    74   850
                                                             ------- -----  ----
                                                             $ 1,873 $(704) $891
                                                             ======= =====  ====
</TABLE>

                                       60
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The significant
components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities were as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 July 2, July 3,
                                                                  1999    1998
                                                                 ------- -------
                                                                   In millions
<S>                                                              <C>     <C>
Deferred Tax Assets
Accrued warranty................................................  $114    $151
Inventory valuation accounts....................................    31      38
Receivable reserves.............................................    28      29
Accrued compensation and benefits...............................    31      27
Depreciation....................................................    32      37
Restructuring reserves..........................................    17      25
Other reserves and accruals.....................................    42      40
Acquisition related items.......................................    38      36
Net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards................    69      87
Other assets....................................................     3       9
                                                                  ----    ----
  Total Deferred Tax Assets.....................................   405     479
Valuation allowance.............................................   (56)    (82)
                                                                  ----    ----
  Net Deferred Tax Assets.......................................   349     397
                                                                  ====    ====
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<S>                                                              <C>     <C>
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Unremitted income of foreign subsidiaries.......................   (558)  (549)
Acquisition related items.......................................    (14)   (19)
Deferred gain on VERITAS........................................   (615)   --
Other liabilities...............................................    (13)   (21)
                                                                 ------  -----
  Total Deferred Tax Liabilities................................ (1,200)  (589)
                                                                 ------  -----
  Net Deferred Tax Liabilities.................................. $ (851) $(192)
                                                                 ======  =====
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<S>                                                              <C>     <C>
As Reported on the Balance Sheet
Deferred Income Tax Assets...................................... $  252  $ 243
Deferred Income Tax Liabilities................................. (1,103)  (435)
                                                                 ------  -----
  Net Deferred Tax Liability.................................... $ (851) $(192)
                                                                 ======  =====
</TABLE>

   The valuation allowance has been provided for deferred tax assets related to
certain foreign net operating loss carry-forwards, foreign tax credit carry-
forwards and future tax benefits associated with the acquisition of certain
software companies. The valuation allowance decreased in 1999 by $26 million,
and increased by $25 million and $20 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively.

   The Company, as of July 2, 1999, has domestic, foreign and state net
operating loss carry-forwards of approximately $40 million, $22 million and
$500 million, respectively, expiring in 2003 through 2013 if not used to offset
future taxable income. The Company, as of July 2, 1999, also has tax credit
carry-forwards of approximately $26 million expiring in 2003 through 2013 if
not used to offset future tax liabilities.

                                       61
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The differences between the provision for (benefit from) income taxes at the
U.S. statutory rate and the effective rate are summarized as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999  1998   1997
                                                              ----  -----  ----
                                                                In millions
<S>                                                           <C>   <C>    <C>
Provision (benefit) at U.S. statutory rate..................  $656  $(246) $312
State income tax provision (benefit), net of federal income
 tax benefit................................................    72    (15)   19
Benefit from net earnings of foreign subsidiaries considered
 to be permanently invested in non-U.S. operations..........   (68)   --    (97)
Write-off of in-process research and development............    21     75   --
VERITAS.....................................................   (10)   --    --
Valuation reserve...........................................    17     25    19
Other individually immaterial items.........................     9    (13)  (20)
                                                              ----  -----  ----
Provision for (benefit from) income taxes...................  $697  $(174) $233
                                                              ====  =====  ====
</TABLE>

   A substantial portion of the Company's Far East manufacturing operations in
Singapore, Thailand, Malaysia and China operate under various tax holidays
which expire in whole or in part during fiscal years 2001 through 2010. Certain
tax holidays may be extended if specific conditions are met. The net impact of
these tax holidays was to increase net income by approximately $35 million
($.14 per share, diluted) in 1999. The tax holidays had no impact on the net
loss in 1998. The net impact of these tax holidays was to increase net income
by approximately $71 million ($0.28 per share, diluted) in 1997. Cumulative
undistributed earnings of the Company's Far East subsidiaries for which no
income taxes have been provided aggregated approximately $1.634 billion at July
2, 1999. These earnings are considered to be permanently invested in non--U.S.
operations. Additional federal and state taxes of approximately $585 million
would have to be provided if these earnings were repatriated to the U.S.

   The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 27, 1997
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to taxable years 1991 through 1993
assessing potential deficiencies approximating $39 million plus interest and
approximately $6 million of penalties. The Company petitioned the United States
Tax Court on September 24, 1997 for a re-determination of the deficiencies. The
Company believes that the likely outcome of this matter will not have a
material adverse effect on its financial position or results of operations.

   The Company received a statutory notice of deficiency dated June 12, 1998
from the Internal Revenue Service relative to Conner's taxable years 1991 and
1992 assessing potential deficiencies approximating $11 million plus interest.
The Company petitioned the United States Tax Court on September 10, 1998 for a
re- determination of the deficiencies. The Company believes that the likely
outcome of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on its financial
position or results of operations.

   Certain of the Company's foreign and state tax returns for various fiscal
years are under examination by taxing authorities. The Company believes that
adequate amounts of tax have been provided for any final assessments which may
result from these examinations.

Acquisitions

   The Company has a history of acquisitions and during the three most recent
fiscal years significant acquisitions included Quinta Corporation and Eastman
Storage Software Management Group in fiscal 1998. No significant acquisitions
occurred in fiscal 1999 or 1997. The following details information specific to
these acquisitions including purchase price allocation, appraisal methods used
and significant assumptions used in valuing assets acquired.

                                       62
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Valuation Methodology

   In accordance with the provisions of APB Opinion 16, all identifiable
assets, including identifiable intangible assets, were assigned a portion of
the cost of the acquired enterprise (purchase price) on the basis of their
respective fair values. This included the portion of the purchase price
properly attributed to incomplete research and development projects expensed
according to the requirements of Interpretation 4 of SFAS No. 2.

   Valuation of acquired intangible assets. Intangible assets were identified
through (i) analysis of the acquisition agreement, (ii) consideration of the
Company's intentions for future use of the acquired assets, and (iii) analysis
of data available concerning Quinta's and Eastman's (collectively referred to
as the "Targets") products, technologies, markets, historical financial
performance, estimates of future performance and the assumptions underlying
those estimates. The economic and competitive environment in which the Company
and the Targets operate was also considered in the valuation analysis.

   To determine the value of in-process research and development, the Company
considered, among other factors, the state of development of each project, the
time and cost needed to complete each project, expected income, associated
risks which included the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in completing
each project and thereby achieving technological feasibility and risks related
to the viability of and potential changes to future target markets. This
analysis resulted in amounts assigned to in-process research and development
for projects that had not yet reached technological feasibility and which did
not have alternative future uses. The Income Approach, which includes analysis
of markets, cash flows, and risks associated with achieving such cash flows,
was the primary technique utilized in valuing each in-process research and
development project. The underlying in-process projects acquired were the most
significant and uncertain assumptions utilized in the valuation analysis of in-
process research and development projects.

   To determine the value of developed technologies, the expected future cash
flows of existing product technologies were evaluated, taking into account
risks related to the characteristics and applications of each product, existing
and future markets and assessments of the life cycle stage of each product.
Based on this analysis, the existing technologies that had reached
technological feasibility were capitalized.

   To determine the value of the distribution networks and customer bases,
Seagate Technology, considered, among other factors, the size of the current
and potential future customer bases, the quality of existing relationships with
customers, the historical costs to develop customer relationships, the expected
income and associated risks. Associated risks included the inherent
difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning the business relationships from
the acquired entity to Seagate and risks related to the viability of and
potential changes to future target markets.

   To determine the value of trademarks, the Company considered, among other
factors, the assumption that in lieu of ownership of a trademark, Seagate would
be willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of such
trademark.

   To determine the value of assembled workforces, the Company considered,
among other factors, the costs to replace existing employees including search
costs, interview costs and training costs.

   Goodwill is determined based on the residual difference between the amount
paid and the values assigned to identified tangible and intangible assets. If
the values assigned to identified tangible and intangible assets exceed the
amounts paid, including the effect of deferred taxes, the values assigned to
long-term assets were reduced proportionately.


                                       63
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

   The underlying in-process projects acquired within each acquisition was the
most significant and uncertain assumption utilized in the valuation analysis.
Such uncertainties could give rise to unforeseen budget over runs and/or
revenue shortfalls in the event that the Company is unable to successfully
complete a certain research and development project. Seagate management
recognizes that the Company is primarily responsible for estimating the fair
value of the purchased research and development in all acquisitions accounted
for under the purchase method.

   The following details specific information about significant acquisitions
including related assumptions used in the purchase price allocation.

Acquisition of Quinta Corporation:

   In April and June 1997, the Company invested an aggregate of $20 million to
acquire approximately ten percent (10%) of the outstanding stock of Quinta
Corporation ("Quinta"), a developer of ultra-high capacity disc drive
technologies, including a new optically-assisted Winchester (OAW) technology.
In August 1997, the Company completed the acquisition of Quinta. Pursuant to
the purchase agreement with Quinta, the shareholders of Quinta, other than
Seagate, received cash payments aggregating $230 million upon the closing of
the acquisition and were eligible to receive additional cash payments
aggregating $96 million upon the achievement of certain product development and
early production milestones. Of the $96 million, $19 million was charged to
operations in fiscal 1998. Of the $19 million charged to operations, $5 million
was paid in fiscal 1998. In July 1998, the Company and Quinta amended the
purchase agreement to eliminate the product development and early production
milestones and provide that the former shareholders of Quinta will be eligible
to receive the remaining $77 million and the $14 million that had been accrued
but unpaid in fiscal 1998. In the first quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company
recorded a charge to operations for the remaining $77 million.

   Quinta's research and development project revolves around an OAW technology.
OAW refers to Quinta's newly designed recording technology that, upon
completion, would be implemented into Winchester hard disk drives. OAW combines
traditional magnetic recording technology with Winchester hard disc drives and
optical recording capabilities; optical recording technology enables greater
data storage capacity. By integrating advanced optical features along with a
highly fine and sophisticated tracking and delivery system within the head
design, OAW would multiply the real density of disc drives.

   Through August 8, 1997, the acquisition date, Quinta had demonstrated
significant achievements in developing its technology. However, further
technological milestones were required before technological feasibility could
be achieved. Quinta's development process consists of the following development
milestones: (i) route light (optical fiber), (ii) flying head use, (iii)
recording media, (iv) mirror creation and demonstration (two stage servo), (v)
complete assembly, (vi) form factor containment, (vii) design verification
test, (viii) customer qualification, and (ix) delivery.

   Assumptions used in estimating the fair value of intangible assets:

 Revenue

   Future revenue estimates were generated for the following product that the
OAW technology would be utilized in: (i) fixed drives, (ii) removable drive,
(iii) fixed/removable drives, and (iv) cartridges. No revenue was expected
through fiscal 1998 since the underlying technology was anticipated not to be
technologically feasible until fiscal 1999. Revenue was estimated to be
approximately $26.6 million in fiscal 1999 and to increase to approximately
$212 million for fiscal year 2000 when the in-process project was expected to
be complete and shipping. Revenue growth was expected to decline to a
sustainable 20% growth by fiscal 2005.

                                       64
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

The estimated revenue growth is consistent with the introduction of new
technology. Revenue estimates were based on (i) aggregate revenue growth rates
for the business as a whole, (ii) individual product revenue, (iii) growth
rates for the disc drive market, (iv) the aggregate size of the disc drive
market, (v) anticipated product development and introduction schedules, (vi)
product sales cycles, and (vii) the estimated life of a product's underlying
technology. Quinta's development cycle, in total, is expected to take
approximately 18 to 24 months.

 Operating expenses

   Estimated operating expenses used in the valuation analysis of Quinta
included (i) cost of goods sold, (ii) general and administrative expense, (iii)
selling and marketing expense, and (iv) research and development expense. In
developing future expense estimates, an evaluation of Seagate's overall
business model, specific product results, including both historical and
expected direct expense levels (as appropriate), and an assessment of general
industry metrics was conducted. Due to Quinta's limited operating history, an
analysis of Quinta's historical performance was not meaningful.

   Cost of goods sold. Estimated cost of goods sold, expressed as a percentage
of revenue, for the in-process technologies ranged from approximately 65% to
80%.

   General and administrative ("G&A") expense. Estimated G&A expense, expressed
as a percentage of revenue, for the in-process technologies ranged from 2.6% in
fiscal 2000 to a sustainable 3.5% in fiscal 2001 and beyond. For fiscal 1999,
however, when the OAW technology would become commercially available, G&A
expense was estimated to be 6.4% due to the relatively low revenue expectation
in the initial commercialization period.

   Selling and marketing ("S&M") expense. Estimated S&M expense, expressed as a
percentage of revenue, for the in-process technologies ranged from 3.3% in
fiscal 2000 to a sustainable 3.5% in fiscal 2001 and beyond. For fiscal 1999,
however, when the OAW technology would become commercially available, S&M
expense was estimated to be 8.7% due to the relatively low revenue expectation
in the initial commercialization period.

   Research and development ("R&D") expense. Estimated R&D expense consists of
the costs associated with activities undertaken to correct errors or keep
products updated with current information (also referred to as "maintenance"
R&D). Maintenance R&D includes all activities undertaken after a product is
available for general release to customers to correct errors or keep the
product updated with current information. These activities include routine
changes and additions. The maintenance R&D expense was estimated to be 0.5% of
revenue for the in-process technologies throughout the estimation period.

 Effective tax rate

   The effective tax rate utilized in the analysis of the in-process
technologies was 38%, which reflects the Company's combined federal and state
statutory income tax rates, exclusive of non-recurring charges at the time of
the acquisition and estimated for future years.

 Discount rate

   The discount rates selected for Quinta's in-process technology was 25%. In
the selection of the appropriate discount rates, consideration was given to (i)
the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of approximately 15% at the date of
acquisition and (ii) the Weighted Average Return on Assets of approximately
25%. The discount rate utilized for the in-process technology was determined to
be higher than Seagate's WACC due to

                                       65
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

the fact that the technology had not yet reached technological feasibility as
of the date of valuation. In utilizing a discount rate greater than the
Company's WACC, management has reflected the risk premium associated with
achieving the forecasted cash flows associated with these projects.

   As a result of this acquisition, the Company incurred a one-time write-off
of in-process research and development of approximately $214 million.
Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Quinta are being amortized on
a straight-line basis over two years. This acquisition was accounted for as a
purchase and, accordingly, the results of operations of Quinta have been
included in the Company's consolidated financial statements from the date of
acquisition.

   The following is a summary of the purchase price allocation (in millions):

<TABLE>
      <S>                                                                 <C>
      Tangible assets less liabilities assumed..........................  $  34
      In-process research and development...............................    214
      Assembled workforce...............................................      2
                                                                          -----
                                                                          $ 250
                                                                          =====
</TABLE>

Acquisition of Eastman Software Storage Management Group, Inc.:

   In June 1998, the Company acquired Eastman Software Storage Management
Group, Inc.("Eastman"), a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak Company, the developer of
storage migration software technology for distributed networks, for $10
million.

   Eastman Software SMG's two primary products are OPEN/stor for Windows NT and
AvailHSM for NetWare. By integrating Eastman's product line, Seagate will be
able to convert their Storage Migrator product into a stand-alone HSM
application for Windows NT environments. As of the date of acquisition, the
Company abandoned the AvailHSM product and technology due to dated features and
functionality; the valuation analysis did not include a fair value for the
AvailHSM product.

   As for OPEN/stor at the date of acquisition, the Company planned to phase
out the product over the following 12 to 15 months. The Company's purpose for
the acquisition was for the next generation technologies that were underway at
Eastman, referenced by project names Sakkara and Phoenix. These projects were
complete re-writes of Eastman's prior generation technology that would allow
the product to be sold stand-alone upon completion.

   In accordance with SFAS 86, paragraph 38 ("Accounting for the Costs of
Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed"), "the cost of
software purchased to be integrated with another product or process will be
capitalized only if technological feasibility was established for the software
component and if all research and development activities for the other
components of the product or process were completed at the time of the
purchase." Although Seagate purchased existing products from Eastman, the
existing products did not operate on a stand-alone basis. Therefore, as
mentioned above, all of the original underlying code and base technology for
the next generation products were in the process of being completely re-written
as date of valuation.


                                       66
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

   Assumptions used in estimating the fair value of intangible assets:

 Revenue

   Future revenue estimates were generated for the following technologies: (i)
OPEN/stor, (ii) Sakkara, and (iii) Phoenix. Aggregate revenue for existing
Eastman products was estimated to be approximately $167,000 for the one month
ending June 30, 1998. Revenue was estimated to increase to approximately $3.9
million and $7.1 million for fiscal years 1999 and 2000 when most of the in-
process projects were expected to be complete and shipping. Thereafter, revenue
was estimated to increase at rates ranging from 20% to 30% for fiscal years
2001 through 2006. Revenue estimates were based on (i) aggregate revenue growth
rates for the business as a whole, (ii) individual product revenue, (iii)
growth rates for the storage management software market, (iv) the aggregate
size of the storage management software market, (v) anticipated product
development and introduction schedules, (vi) product sales cycles, and (vii)
the estimated life of a product's underlying technology.

 Operating expenses

   Estimated operating expenses used in the valuation analysis of Eastman
included (i) cost of goods sold, (ii) general and administrative expense, (iii)
selling and marketing expense, and (iv) research and development expense. In
developing future expense estimates, an evaluation of both Seagate's and
Eastman's overall business model, specific product results, including both
historical and expected direct expense levels, and an assessment of general
industry metrics was conducted.

   Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold, expressed as a percentage of
revenue, for the developed and in-process technologies was estimated to be
approximately 5% throughout the estimation period.

   General and administrative ("G&A") expense. G&A expense, expressed as a
percentage of revenue, for the developed and in-process technologies was
estimated to be approximately 10% throughout the estimation period.

   Selling and marketing ("S&M") expense. S&M expense, expressed as a
percentage of revenue, for the developed and in-process technologies was
estimated to be 27% throughout the estimation period.

   Research and development ("R&D") expense. R&D expense consists of the costs
associated with activities undertaken to correct errors or keep products
updated with current information (also referred to as "maintenance" R&D).
Maintenance R&D includes all activities undertaken after a product is available
for general release to customers to correct errors or keep the product updated
with current information. These activities include routine changes and
additions. The maintenance R&D expense was estimated to be 5% of revenue for
the developed and in-process technologies throughout the estimation period.

   In addition, as of the date of acquisition, Seagate Software management
anticipated the costs to complete the in-process technologies at approximately
$1.8 million.

 Effective tax rate

   The effective tax rate utilized in the analysis of developed and in-process
technologies was 38%, which reflects the Company's combined federal and state
statutory income tax rates, exclusive of non-recurring charges at the time of
the acquisition and estimated for future years.

                                       67
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


 Discount rate

   The discount rates selected for Eastman's developed and in-process
technologies were 15% and 20%, respectively. In the selection of the
appropriate discount rates, consideration was given to (i) the Weighted Average
Cost of Capital (WACC) of approximately 15% at the date of acquisition and (ii)
the Weighted Average Return on Assets of approximately 18%. The discount rate
utilized for the in-process technology was determined to be higher than the
Company's WACC due to the fact that the technology had not yet reached
technological feasibility as of the date of valuation. In utilizing a discount
rate greater than the Company's WACC, management has reflected the risk premium
associated with achieving the forecasted cash flows associated with these
projects.

   The purchase price allocation was based upon the anticipated release date,
as of the valuation date, of significant projects acquired, such as Sakkara and
Phoenix. Such release dates were estimated from the second quarter of the
Company's fiscal year 1999 through the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999. Material
net cash inflows from such related projects were expected to commence
immediately after their respective release dates. As a result of the
acquisition, the Company incurred a one-time write-off of in-process research
and development of $7 million.

   The following is a summary of the purchase price allocation (in millions):

<TABLE>
      <S>                                                                  <C>
      Current assets and other tangible assets............................ $ .5
      Liabilities assumed.................................................  (.5)
      Assembled workforce.................................................   .4
      Developed technology................................................   .5
      In-process research and development.................................  6.8
      Microsoft agreement.................................................  1.5
      Goodwill............................................................   .8
                                                                           ----
                                                                           $ 10
                                                                           ====
</TABLE>

   In 1998, the Company increased its investment in Dragon Systems, a maker of
voice recognition software, by $18 million. Goodwill arising from the equity
investment in Dragon Systems is being amortized on a straight-line basis over
seven years.

Contribution of the Network & Storage Management Group to New VERITAS and the
purchase of outstanding shares of Seagate Software by Seagate Technology.

 Contribution of the Network & Storage Management Group to New VERITAS

   On May 28, 1999, Seagate Technology, and its direct and indirect
subsidiaries, Seagate Software and the Seagate Software Network & Storage
Management Group, closed the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the "Plan")
dated as of October 5, 1998 with VERITAS Holding Corporation ("New VERITAS")
and VERITAS Software Corporation ("VERITAS"). The Plan provided for the
contribution by Seagate Technology, Seagate Software, and certain of their
respective subsidiaries to New VERITAS of (a) the outstanding stock of the
Network & Storage Management Group and certain other subsidiaries of Seagate
Software and (b) those assets used primarily in the network and storage
management business of Seagate Software (the "NSMG business"), in consideration
for the issuance of shares of common stock of New VERITAS to Seagate Software
and the offer by New VERITAS to grant options to purchase common stock of New
VERITAS to certain of Seagate Software's employees who become employees of New
VERITAS or its subsidiaries. As part of the Plan, New VERITAS assumed certain
liabilities of the NSMG business. The Plan was structured to qualify as a tax-
free exchange.


                                       68
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Subsequent to the consummation, all outstanding securities of New VERITAS
were assumed and converted into common stock of VERITAS with identical rights,
preferences and privileges, on a share for share basis. As a result of the
contribution of the NSMG business to New VERITAS, Seagate Software received a
total of 69,148,208 shares of VERITAS common stock and former employees of the
NSMG business received options to purchase an aggregate of 6,945,048 shares of
VERITAS common stock. Share and option amounts for VERITAS have been adjusted
to reflect the two-for-one stock split effective July 9, 1999 by VERITAS.

   Seagate Technology has accounted for the contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS
as a non-monetary transaction using the fair value of the assets and
liabilities exchanged. After the transaction, Seagate Software owns
approximately 41.63% (69,148,208 shares) of the outstanding shares of VERITAS,
including the NSMG business. Because Seagate Technology still owns a portion of
the NSMG business through its ownership of VERITAS, Seagate Technology did not
recognize 100% of the gain on the exchange. The gain recorded is equal to the
difference between 58.37% of the fair value of the VERITAS common stock
received and 58.37% of Seagate Technology's basis in the NSMG assets and
liabilities exchanged. Seagate Technology is accounting for its on going
investment in VERITAS using the equity method. The difference between the
recorded amount of Seagate Technology's investment in VERITAS and the amount of
its underlying equity in the net assets of VERITAS has been allocated based
upon the fair value of the underlying tangible and intangible assets and
liabilities of VERITAS. The intangible assets included amounts allocated to in-
process research and development and resulted in a $85 million write-off
included in activity related to equity interest in VERITAS in the accompanying
statement of operations. Intangible assets including goodwill are being
amortized over four years

   Seagate Technology will include in its financial results its share of the
net income or loss of VERITAS, excluding certain NSMG purchase accounting
related amounts recorded by VERITAS, but including Seagate Technology's
amortization of the difference between its recorded investment and the
underlying assets and liabilities of VERITAS. Because of practicality
considerations, the net income or loss of VERITAS will be included in the
results of Seagate Technology on a one quarter lag basis. The results of
VERITAS for the period from May 29, 1999 to June 30, 1999, the period
subsequent to the contribution of NSMG to VERITAS, will be included in the
Company's results of operations for the quarter ended October 1, 1999. The
results of VERITAS for the period from July 1, 1999 to September 30, 1999 will
be included in the Company's results for the quarter ended December 31, 1999.

 Seagate Technology exchange offer

   In a separate but related transaction to the NSMG contribution to VERITAS,
on June 9, 1999, the Company exchanged 5,275,772 shares of its common stock for
3,267,255 of the outstanding shares of Seagate Software common stock owned by
employees, directors and consultants of Seagate Software. The exchange ratio
was determined based on the estimated value of Seagate Software common stock
divided by the fair market value of Seagate Technology common stock.

   The estimated value of Seagate Software common stock exchanged into Seagate
Technology common stock was determined based upon the sum of the fair value of
the NSMG business, as measured by the fair value of the shares received from
VERITAS, plus the estimated fair value of the Information Management Group
("IMG") of Seagate Software as determined by the Seagate Technology Board of
Directors, plus the assumed proceeds from the exercise of all outstanding
Seagate Software stock options, divided by the number of fully converted shares
of Seagate Software. The Board of Directors of Seagate Technology considered a
number of factors in determining the estimated fair value of the IMG business,
including historical and projected revenues, earnings and cash flows, as well
as other factors and consultations with financial advisors.

                                       69
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The fair value of the Seagate Software shares acquired less the original
purchase price paid by the employees was recorded as compensation expense for
those shares outstanding and vested less than six months. The purchase of
Seagate Software shares outstanding and vested more than six months was
accounted for as the purchase of a minority interest and, accordingly, the fair
value of the shares exchanged has been allocated to all of the identifiable
tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of Seagate Software. In
connection with the acquisition, Seagate Technology recorded compensation
expense amounting to approximately $124 million and wrote off purchased
research and development amounting to $2 million in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1999. Associated intangible assets and goodwill are being amortized to
operations over four years.

 Computation of pro rata gain on contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     In millions
      <S>                                                            <C>
      Fair value of shares received.................................   $3,151
      Times: pro rata percentage accounted for at fair value........    58.37%
                                                                       ------
      Adjusted fair value of securities received....................   $1,839
                                                                       ------
      Book value of NSMG............................................   $   57
      Times: pro rate percentage accounted for at fair value........    58.37%
                                                                       ------
      Book value exchanged..........................................       33
                                                                       ------
      Pro rata gain.................................................   $1,806
                                                                       ======
</TABLE>

 Computation of original investment in VERITAS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    In millions
      <S>                                                           <C>
      Book value of NSMG...........................................   $   57
      Times: pro rata percentage accounted for at fair value.......    41.63%
                                                                      ------
      Portion of investment in VERITAS with no step up in basis....       24
      Plus: Adjusted fair value of securities received.............    1,839
                                                                      ------
      Investment in VERITAS........................................   $1,863
                                                                      ======
</TABLE>

 Allocation of original investment in VERITAS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   In millions
      <S>                                                          <C>
      Allocation of investment to VERITAS assets and liabilities:
        Net tangible assets.......................................   $  114
        Intangible assets:
          Distribution channel....................................        9
          Developed technology....................................       46
          Trademark and workforce.................................       16
          In-process research and development.....................       40
      Allocation of investment to NSMG assets and liabilities:
        Net tangible assets.......................................       24
        Intangible assets:
          Distribution channel....................................       66
          Developed technology....................................       92
          Trademark and workforce.................................       14
          In-process research and development.....................       45
        Goodwill..................................................    1,397
                                                                     ------
            Total original investment in VERITAS..................   $1,863
                                                                     ======
</TABLE>


                                       70
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


 Value of minority interest

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Dollars in millions,
                                                          except per share data
      <S>                                                 <C>
      Number of Seagate Software shares and options
       exchanged for Seagate Technology stock held by
       former employees, consultants and shares held more
       than six months by employees......................       1,010,010
      Times: Exchange ratio into Seagate Technology
       stock.............................................           1.699
                                                               ----------
      Number of Seagate Technology shares issued.........       1,716,007
      Value per share of Seagate Technology common stock
       as of June 9, 1999................................      $    30.75
                                                               ----------
          Total value Seagate Technology shares issued...      $       53
      Less: Proceeds from assumed exercise of Seagate
       Software stock options............................              (1)
                                                               ----------
          Total value of minority interest...............      $       52
                                                               ==========
</TABLE>

 Allocation of minority interest purchase price to the intangible assets of
 Seagate Software

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     In millions
      <S>                                                            <C>
      Distribution channel..........................................     $ 2
      Developed technology..........................................       4
      Trademark and workforce.......................................       1
      In-process research and development...........................       2
      Goodwill......................................................      45
                                                                         ---
        Subtotal....................................................      54
      Deferred tax liability........................................      (2)
                                                                         ---
          Total.....................................................     $52
                                                                         ===
</TABLE>

 Compensation relating to stock purchased from employees

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           Dollars in millions,
                                                           except per share data
      <S>                                                  <C>
      Seagate Software options exercised and exchanged
       for Seagate Technology stock......................        2,240,470
      Plus: Seagate Software stock held for less than 6
       months and exchanged for Seagate Technology
       stock.............................................           16,775
                                                                ----------
          Total Seagate Software shares exchanged........        2,257,245
      Times: Exchange ratio into Seagate Technology
       stock.............................................            1.699
                                                                ----------
      Number of Seagate Technology shares issued.........        3,835,059
                                                                ----------
      Value per share of Seagate Technology common stock
       on June 9, 1999...................................       $    30.75
      Less: Average price paid per Seagate Technology
       share.............................................       $    (4.01)
                                                                ----------
      Average compensation expense per Seagate Technology
       share issued......................................       $    26.74
                                                                ----------
          Total compensation expense.....................       $      103
                                                                ==========
</TABLE>


                                       71
<PAGE>

                              SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

 Reconciliation of amounts included in Gain on contribution of NSMG to
 VERITAS, net

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     In millions
      <S>                                                            <C>
      Pro rata gain.................................................   $1,806
      Less:
        Compensation expense........................................      124
        Transaction costs...........................................       12
                                                                       ------
      Gain on contribution of NSMG to VERITAS, net..................   $1,670
                                                                       ======
</TABLE>

 Activity related to equity interest in VERITAS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     In millions
      <S>                                                            <C>
      Write-off of in-process research and development..............    $ 85
      Amortization of intangible assets including goodwill..........      34
                                                                        ----
      Activity related to equity interest in VERITAS................    $119
                                                                        ====
</TABLE>

   All activity related to the equity interest in VERITAS was recorded in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.

 Allocation of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities related to NSMG
 and VERITAS

 Overview

   NSMG offers network and storage management software solutions, which focus
on the information availability component of Enterprise Information Management
("EIM") by enabling IT professionals to manage distributed network resources
and to secure and protect enterprise data. NSMG's products include features
such as system backup, disaster recovery, migration, replication, automated
client protection, storage resource management, scheduling, event correlation
and desktop management.

   VERITAS develops, markets and supports advanced storage management and high
availability products for open system environments. VERITAS' products provide
performance improvement and reliability enhancement features that are critical
for many commercial applications. Some of the key features of storage
management products include protection against data loss and file corruption,
rapid recovery after disk or system failure, the ability to process large
files efficiently and the ability to manage the storage systems without
interrupting users. The high availability products provide an automated
failover between computer systems organized in clusters sharing disk
resources.

   In accordance with the provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB")
Opinions No. 16 and 17, all identifiable assets acquired were analyzed to
determine their Fair Market Values. As the basis for identifying the in-
process research and development ("R&D"), the development projects were
evaluated in the context of Interpretation 4 of Financial Accounting Standards
Board Statement No. 2. In accordance with these provisions, the developmental
projects were examined to determine if there were any alternative future uses.
Such evaluation consisted of a specific review of the efforts, including the
overall objectives of the project, progress toward the objectives, and the
uniqueness of the developments of these objectives. Further, each in-process
R&D project was reviewed to determine if technological feasibility had been
achieved.

 Description of methodology

   Tangible net assets of VERITAS principally include cash and investments,
accounts receivable, fixed assets and other current assets. Liabilities
principally include accounts payable, accrued compensation, and other accrued
liabilities.

                                      72
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   To estimate the value of the developed technology, the expected future cash
flows attributable to all existing technology was discounted, taking into
account risks related to the characteristics and applications of the
technology, existing and future markets, and assessments of the life cycle
stage of the technology. The developed technology is being amortized on the
straight-line basis over its estimated useful life (four years) which is
expected to exceed the ratio of current revenues to the total of current and
anticipated revenues.

   The value of the distribution networks and original equipment manufacturer
agreements was estimated by considering, among other factors, the size of the
current and potential future customer bases, the quality of existing
relationships with customers, the historical costs to develop customer
relationships, the expected income and associated risks. Associated risks
included the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in transitioning business
relationships and risks related to the viability of and potential changes to
future target markets.

   The value of trademarks was estimated by considering, among other factors,
the assumption that in lieu of ownership of a trademark, a company would be
willing to pay a royalty in order to exploit the related benefits of such
trademark.

   The value of the assembled workforce was estimated as the costs to replace
the existing employees, including recruiting, hiring, and training costs for
each category of employee.

   The value allocated to projects identified as in-process technology at
VERITAS and Seagate Software, for the minority interest acquired, were charged
to expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999. These write-offs were
necessary because the acquired technologies had not reached technological
feasibility at the date of purchase and have no future alternative uses.
Seagate Software expects that the acquired in-process research and development
will be successfully developed, but there can be no assurance that commercial
viability of these products will be achieved.

   The nature of the efforts required to develop the purchased in-process
technology into commercially viable products principally relate to the
completion of all planning, designing, prototyping, verification and testing
activities that are necessary to establish that the product can be produced to
meet its design specifications, including functions, features and technical
performance requirements. The value of the purchased in-process technology for
VERITAS was estimated as the projected net cash flows related to such products,
including costs to complete the development of the technology and the future
revenues to be earned upon commercialization of the products, excluding
revenues attributable to future development efforts. These cash flows were then
discounted back to their net present value. The projected net cash flows from
such projects were based on management's estimates of revenues and operating
profits related to such projects.

   Goodwill is calculated as the residual difference between the estimated
amount paid and the values assigned to identified tangible and intangible
assets and liabilities.

 Valuation Assumptions

 Revenue

   Revenue estimates were based on (i) aggregate revenue growth rates for the
businesses as a whole, (ii) growth rates for the storage management software
market, (iii) the aggregate size of the storage management software market,
(iv) anticipated product development and introduction schedules, (v) product
sales cycles, and (vi) the estimated life of a product's underlying technology.

   Future revenue estimates were generated based on the worldwide storage
management software market and the backup, restore and archive market. The
overall storage management software market is forecasted to

                                       73
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

increase at a compound annual growth rate of 14.2%, from a 1997 value of $2.543
billion to a 2002 value of $4.941 billion. The backup, restore and archive
software segment of storage management software, in which NSMG competes, is
expected to grow much faster than other segments.

   NSMG is positioned for continued growth in its backup, restore, and archive
software products. The backup, restore, and archive segment is the fastest
growing in the storage management software market. Moreover, NSMG competes, and
is one of the leaders in providing this type of software for the Windows NT
operating environment. Revenue for Windows 95 and Windows NT is projected to
grow at a 43.3% compound annual growth rate (1997 through 2002), higher than
for any other operating environment.

   Revenue for NSMG was forecasted by product line for the years 1999 through
2001. Revenue was expected to be $350 million for the 1999 calendar year.
Thereafter, NSMG is expected to grow slightly greater than the 43.3% industry
average through 2003. The revenue by product was allocated between existing,
in-process, and future technology; indicating a four-year life cycle (revenue
contribution from technology), which is consistent with NSMG's past experience
with technology life cycles.

   VERITAS is an open systems supplier. The market for open systems suppliers
grew 101.2% between 1996 and 1997. In addition, VERITAS looks to growth and
increase its market share through positioning itself as a provider of software
services in the Windows NT operating environment. As above, revenue for Windows
is projected to grow at a 43.3% compound annual growth rate (1997 through
2002).

   Revenue for VERITAS was forecasted by product line for the years 1999
through 2001. Revenue was expected to be $270 million for the 1999 calendar
year. Thereafter, VERITAS is expected to grow at 67.9% and 58.4% for years 2000
and 2001, respectively, a rate greater than the 43.3% industry average. For
years 2002 through 2005, revenues are expected to level off at a 40% growth
rate. The revenue by product was allocated between existing, in-process, and
future technology indicating a four-year life cycle (revenue contribution from
technology) for NT based products and a three-year life cycle for Unix based
products which is consistent with VERITAS' past experience with technology life
cycles.

 Operating expenses

   Estimated operating expenses used in the valuation analysis of NSMG and
VERITAS included (i) cost of goods sold, (ii) general and administrative
expense, (iii) sales and marketing expense, and (iv) research and development
expense. In developing future expense estimates, an evaluation of both NSMG and
VERITAS's overall business models, specific product results, including both
historical and expected direct expense levels (as appropriate), and an
assessment of general industry metrics was conducted.

   Cost of goods sold. Cost of goods sold, for the developed and in-process
technologies was estimated to be approximately 8.6% of revenues from 2000 to
2006 for NSMG. Cost of goods sold, for the developed and in-process
technologies was estimated to be approximately 14.7% of revenues from 2000 to
2005 for VERITAS.

   General and administrative ("G&A") expense. G&A expense, expressed as a
percentage of revenue, for the developed and in-process technologies was
estimated to be 9.2% in 1999 and expected to be reduced to 6.7% by 2002 for
NSMG. G&A expense for VERITAS, expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the
developed and in-process technologies was held constant at 4.4% of revenues for
the forecast period of 2000 to 2005.

   Selling and marketing ("S&M") expense. S&M expense, expressed as a
percentage of revenue, for the developed and in-process technologies was
estimated to be 37.4% for years 2000 to 2006 related to NSMG. S&M expense for
VERITAS, expressed as a percentage of revenue, for the developed and in-process
technologies was estimated to be 34.7% for years 2000 to 2005.

                                       74
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Research and development ("R&D") expense. R&D expense consists of the costs
associated with activities undertaken to correct errors or keep products
updated with current information (also referred to as "maintenance" R&D).
Maintenance R&D includes all activities undertaken after a product is available
for general release to customers to correct errors or keep the product updated
with current information. These activities include routine changes and
additions. The maintenance R&D expense was estimated to be 17.4% of revenue for
the developed and in-process technologies for the years 2000 to 2006 for NSMG.
R&D expense for VERITAS was estimated as 18.2% of revenue in 1999 and was
reduced to 16% by 2002, continuing at that rate until 2005.

   In addition, as of the date of the contribution of NSMG to New VERITAS,
Seagate Software's management and VERITAS Software's management anticipated the
costs to complete the in-process technologies at approximately $5.8 million and
$44.2 million, respectively.

 Effective tax rate

   The effective tax rate utilized in the analysis of developed and in-process
technologies was 33%, which reflects VERITAS's combined effective federal and
state statutory income tax rates, exclusive of non-recurring charges at the
time of the contribution and estimated for future years.

 Discount rate

   The discount rates selected for the developed and in-process technologies
were 12% and 17%, respectively. In the selection of the appropriate discount
rates, consideration was given to (i) the Weighted Average Rate of Return
(approximately 14% at the date of acquisition) and (ii) the Weighted Average
Return on Assets (approximately 18%) that investors expect for company's with
similar anticipated growth rates and other characteristics as the NSMG and
VERITAS businesses. The discount rate utilized for the in-process technology
was determined to be higher than the WARR due to the fact that the technology
had not yet reached technological feasibility as of the date of valuation. In
utilizing a discount rate greater than the WARR, management has reflected the
risk premium associated with achieving the forecasted cash flows associated
with these projects. The discount rate was adjusted downward from the WARR for
the developed technologies to reflect less technological and/or market risk
associated with forecasted sales of the existing products.

 Allocation of tangible and intangible assets and liabilities related to the
 Seagate Software minority interest acquired by Seagate Technology

   Seagate Software's investment in VERITAS comprises over 85% of the fair
value of Seagate Software. Accordingly, the assumptions utilized in the
allocation of the purchase price of the minority interest of Seagate Software
acquired by Seagate Technology were materially the same as those used in the
allocation of the tangible and intangible assets and liabilities of NSMG and
VERITAS.

 Pro forma financial information

   The pro forma financial information presented below is presented as if the
contribution of NSMG to VERITAS and the purchase of the Seagate Software
minority interest by Seagate Technology had occurred at the beginning of fiscal
1998. The pro forma statements of operations for the twelve months ended July
2, 1999 and July 3, 1998, include the historical results of Seagate Technology
less the historic results of the NSMG business, plus Seagate Technology's
equity interest in the pro forma results of VERITAS, including recurring
amortization of related goodwill and intangibles plus recurring amortization of
goodwill and intangibles associated with the purchase of shares of Seagate
Software stock by Seagate Technology. Non-recurring transactions, such as the
gain on the NSMG contribution to VERITAS, compensation expense relating to the

                                       75
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

acquisition of stock held less than six months by employees of Seagate
Software, transaction costs and the write-off of in-process research and
development are excluded from the pro forma presentation. The pro forma
financial results are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             For the years ended
                                     ---------------------------------------
                                       July 2, 1999          July 3, 1998
                                     -----------------     -----------------
                                       In millions, except per share data
      <S>                            <C>                   <C>
      Revenue......................  $           6,600     $           6,644
      Loss before income taxes.....               (110)               (1,127)
      Net loss.....................                (34)                 (789)
      Net loss per share--basic and
       diluted.....................  $           (0.14)    $           (3.24)
</TABLE>

Restructuring

   During the third quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company recorded a
restructuring charge of $72 million as a result of steps the Company is taking
to further improve the efficiency of its operations. These actions include
closure of the Company's microchip manufacturing facility in Scotland;
discontinuance of the Company's recording head suspension business located in
Malaysia and Minnesota; consolidation of global customer service operations by
relocating such operations in Singapore, Scotland and Costa Mesa, California to
Reynosa, Mexico; and closure of the Company's recording media substrate
facility in Mexico. The restructuring charges were comprised of $37 million for
the write-off or write-down of excess manufacturing, assembly and test
equipment formerly utilized in Scotland, Malaysia and Minnesota; $16 million
for lease termination and holding costs for facilities located in Scotland and
Singapore; $10 million for employee termination costs; $3 million for the
write-off of goodwill associated with the recording media substrate operation
in Mexico; $2 million for the write-down of owned facilities located in
Malaysia; $1 million for the write-down of leasehold improvements in Singapore;
$1 million for the write-off of tooling; $1 million for contract cancellations
associated with the suspension business; and $1 million for repayment of
various grants previously received from the Scottish government. Prior to this
period, there was no indication of permanent impairment of the assets
associated with the closure and consolidation of facilities. Evaluations of the
resale market for certain assets were used to estimate fair value.

   As of July 2, 1999, all of the equipment located at the microchip facility
in Scotland has been sold and the lease on this facility has been terminated.

   The Company is in the final stages of disposing all of the assets for its
suspension business. The facility that was previously occupied by the
suspension operations is currently being used for other operations.

   In connection with the fiscal 1999 restructuring, the Company currently
expects a workforce reduction of approximately 1,250 employees. Approximately
631 of the 1,250 employees had been terminated as of July 2, 1999. As a result
of employee terminations and the write-off or write-down of equipment and
facilities in connection with implementing the fiscal year 1999 restructuring
plan, the Company estimates that annual salary and depreciation expense will be
reduced by approximately $27 million and $16 million, respectively. The Company
anticipates that the implementation of the 1999 restructuring plan will be
substantially complete by the end of March 2000.

   In 1999, the Company reversed $12 million of its restructuring accruals
originally recorded in fiscal year 1998 as a result of the Company abandoning
its plan to seek an agreement with an external vendor to supply parts currently
manufactured at a facility in Thailand. This reversal included $10 million of
valuation reserves classified elsewhere on the balance sheet and reversal of
amounts included in the restructuring reserve of $1 million for facility lease
costs and $1 million for contract cancellations. In addition, reclassifications
between

                                       76
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

cost categories within the restructuring reserve were made as a result of
differences between original estimates and amounts actually incurred or
expected to be incurred. This was primarily a result of an increase in the
period of time estimated to obtain a suitable sub-lessee for certain leased
buildings located at the former San Jose, California design facility offset by
lower severance and benefits costs than originally estimated.

   In the second and third quarters of fiscal 1998, the Company recorded
restructuring charges aggregating $347 million. The Company had experienced
reductions in revenue from the third quarter of fiscal year 1997 to the fourth
quarter of fiscal year 1997 of 21%, from the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1997
to the first quarter of fiscal year 1998 of 4% and from the first quarter of
fiscal year 1998 to the second quarter of fiscal year 1998 of an additional
12%. During the second quarter of fiscal 1998, forecasted production needs were
much lower than the current capacity of the Company and the Company recognized
that the recent oversupply in the marketplace was not a short-term anomaly. In
this period, the Company also decided to discontinue production of several
products, rendering test and manufacturing equipment unique to those products
obsolete. Prior to this period, there was no indication of permanent impairment
of these assets associated with the recent excess capacity of the Company or
the products to be discontinued. These charges reflect steps the Company is
taking to align worldwide operations with current market conditions by reducing
existing capacity in all areas of the Company and improving the productivity of
its operations and the efficiency of its development efforts by consolidating
manufacturing and R&D operations. Actions include exiting production of mobile
products; early discontinuation of several other products; closing and selling
the Clonmel, Ireland drive manufacturing facility; closing and subleasing the
San Jose and Moorpark, California design center facilities; aborting production
expansion projects in Cork, Ireland; and divesting the Company of the new
Philippines manufacturing facility, which was nearing completion. Included in
the restructuring charge are the write-down and write-off of tangible assets
comprised of manufacturing, assembly and test equipment and tooling formerly
utilized in California, Singapore, Thailand, Ireland and facilities located in
California, the Philippines and Thailand totaling $200 million and intangible
assets totaling $2.5 million for of goodwill associated with permanently
impaired media manufacturing equipment.

   The majority of the tangible assets have been disposed of or sold including
the disposal of the Clonmel, Ireland facility in May 1998 and the sublease of
one of the five buildings at the San Jose, California design center. The
Company is marketing three additional buildings in the San Jose, California
design center for sublease. The fifth building has a remaining lease term so
short as to make a sublease impractical. Equipment formerly utilized at these
facilities, in addition to equipment associated with restructuring actions in
Singapore and Thailand, has been relocated to other sites or scrapped. Of the
$137 million in write-offs and write-downs of equipment, $109 million was
scrapped and $28 million is awaiting final disposition. In addition, $10
million of equipment was transferred at net book value for use in operations at
other sites. Subsequent to the recording of the restructuring reserve,
depreciation related to certain assets that continued in use, was included in
operations. At the time these assets were identified as available for sale no
further depreciation was recorded. The write-off of intangibles and other
assets includes capital equipment deposits and goodwill associated with
permanently impaired equipment. Costs associated with aborting production
expansion projects in Cork, Ireland include primarily architect costs, lease
termination costs associated with equipment leased by contractors, and lease
termination costs for temporary housing used by contractor personnel.

   Certain facilities including design centers in California, as well as
manufacturing facilities in Thailand continued in use after restructuring
amounts were recorded. The Moorpark, California product design center remained
in use for six months after the write-down of leasehold improvements and
equipment totaling $9 million. This facility has been subleased for a portion
of the remaining minimum lease term. One Thailand manufacturing facilities
continue to be utilized until a satisfactory agreement can be made with an
external vendor to supply parts currently manufactured at this location. At the
time the decision to exit this facility was

                                       77
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)

made, the Company believed that it had identified a supplier for parts. It was
subsequently determined that the supplier could not meet the Company's quality
standards.

   As of January 1, 1999, the Company's planned workforce reduction associated
with the fiscal 1998 restructuring of approximately 15,000 employees had been
completed. The implementation of the 1998 restructuring plan was substantially
complete as of July 2, 1999.

   The following table summarizes the Company's restructuring activities:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         Severance                      Intangibles
                            and      Excess               & Other     Contract
                         Benefits  Facilities Equipment   Assets    Cancellations Other  Total
                         --------- ---------- --------- ----------- ------------- -----  -----
                                                     In millions
<S>                      <C>       <C>        <C>       <C>         <C>           <C>    <C>
FY98 restructuring
 charge.................   $ 57       $ 78      $ 137      $  11        $ 43      $ 21   $ 347
Cash charges............    (48)        (3)       --         --          (38)      (11)   (100)
Non-cash charges........    --         (55)      (137)       (11)        --        --     (203)
                           ----       ----      -----      -----        ----      ----   -----
Reserve balances, July
 3, 1998................   $  9       $ 20      $ --       $ --         $  5      $ 10   $  44
FY99 restructuring
 charge.................     10         19         37          4           1         1      72
Cash charges............    (12)       (20)       --         --          --         (1)    (33)
Non-cash charges........    --          (4)       (37)        (4)        --        --      (45)
Adjustments and
 Reclassifications......     (3)         3        --         --           (3)        1      (2)
                           ----       ----      -----      -----        ----      ----   -----
Reserve balances, July
 2, 1999................   $  4       $ 18      $ --       $ --         $  3      $ 11   $  36
                           ====       ====      =====      =====        ====      ====   =====
</TABLE>

 Business Segment and Geographic Information

   The Company designs, manufactures and markets products for storage,
retrieval and management of data on computer and data communications systems.
These products include disc drives and disc drive components, tape drives and
software. The Company has three operating segments, disc drives, software and
tape drives, however, only the disc drive and software businesses are
reportable segments under the criteria of SFAS No. 131. The "other" category in
the following revenue and gross profit tables consists of tape drives and
out-of-warranty repair. The CEO evaluates performance and allocates resources
based on revenue and gross profit from operations. Gross profit from operations
is defined as revenue less cost of sales. The Company does not evaluate or
allocate assets or depreciation by operating segment, nor does the CEO evaluate
segments on these criteria. The CEO has been identified as the Chief Operating
Decision Maker as defined by SFAS No. 131.

                                       78
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   The following table summarizes the Company's operations by business segment:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   1999        1998      1997
                                                 --------    --------  --------
                                                        In millions
   <S>                                           <C>         <C>       <C>
   Revenue:
     Disc Drives................................ $  6,101    $  6,152  $  8,079
     Software...................................      343         293       218
     Other......................................      358         374       643
                                                 --------    --------  --------
     Consolidated............................... $  6,802    $  6,819  $  8,940
                                                 ========    ========  ========
   Gross Profit:
     Disc Drives................................ $  1,163    $    667  $  1,668
     Software...................................      291         242       173
     Other......................................       98          80       181
                                                 --------    --------  --------
     Consolidated............................... $  1,552    $    989  $  2,022
                                                 ========    ========  ========
   Total Assets:
     Disc Drives................................ $ 16,553    $ 16,685  $ 15,321
     Software...................................    2,032(1)      212       180
     Other......................................      299          80        53
     Eliminations...............................  (11,812)    (11,332)   (8,831)
                                                 --------    --------  --------
     Consolidated............................... $  7,072    $  5,645  $  6,723
                                                 ========    ========  ========
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Includes $1.745 billion equity investment in VERITAS Software.

   In 1999, 1998 and 1997, Compaq Computer Corporation accounted for more than
10% of consolidated revenue for a total of $1.144 billion, $873 million and
$995 million, respectively. Sales to Compaq Computer Corporation were from the
Company's disc drive segment.

   Enterprise-wide information is provided in accordance with SFAS No. 131.
Long-lived assets consist of property, equipment and leasehold improvements,
capital leases, equity investments, goodwill and other intangibles, and other
non-current assets as recorded by the Company's operations in each area.

   The following table summarizes the Company's operations by geographic area:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1999       1998    1997
                                                     -------    ------- -------
                                                           In millions
   <S>                                               <C>        <C>     <C>
   Revenue from external customers: (1)
     United States.................................. $ 3,440    $ 3,641 $ 5,216
     The Netherlands................................   1,361      1,447   1,704
     Singapore......................................   1,194      1,119     713
     Other..........................................     807        612   1,307
                                                     -------    ------- -------
     Consolidated................................... $ 6,802    $ 6,819 $ 8,940
                                                     =======    ======= =======
   Long-lived Assets:
     United States.................................. $ 2,571(2) $   771 $   852
     Singapore......................................     546        607     583
     Other..........................................     643        652     735
                                                     -------    ------- -------
     Consolidated................................... $ 3,760    $ 2,030 $ 2,170
                                                     =======    ======= =======
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Revenue is attributed to countries based on the shipping location.
(2) Includes $1.745 billion equity investment in VERITAS Software.

                                       79
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


Commitments

   Leases--The Company leases certain property, facilities and equipment under
non-cancelable lease agreements. Land and facility leases expire at various
dates through 2015 and contain various provisions for rental adjustments
including, in certain cases, a provision based on increases in the Consumer
Price Index. All of the leases require the Company to pay property taxes,
insurance and normal maintenance costs.

   Future minimum lease payments for operating leases with initial or remaining
terms of one year or more were as follows at July 2, 1999:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               Operating
                                                Leases
                                              -----------
                                              In millions
            <S>                               <C>
            2000.............................    $ 46
            2001.............................      41
            2002.............................      31
            2003.............................      25
            2004.............................      21
            After 2004.......................     138
                                                 ----
                                                 $302
                                                 ====
</TABLE>

   Total rent expense for all land, facility and equipment operating leases was
approximately $56 million, $58 million and $51 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

   Capital Expenditure--The Company's commitments for construction of
manufacturing facilities and equipment approximated $78 million at July 2,
1999.

Supplemental Cash Flow Information

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                            1999   1998   1997
                                                           ------  -----  -----
                                                              In millions
   <S>                                                     <C>     <C>    <C>
   Cash Transactions:
     Cash paid for interest............................... $   52  $  52  $  26
     Cash paid for income taxes, net of refunds...........   (107)    (1)    59
   Non-Cash Transactions:
     Contribution of NSMG to VERITAS...................... $1,806  $ --   $ --
     Acquisition of minority interest.....................     52    --     --
     Conversion of debentures.............................    --     --     788
</TABLE>

Subsequent Events

   The Company is in the process of developing a restructuring plan designed to
realign its manufacturing capacity and increase productivity. Some minor
restructuring activities have taken place during the first quarter of fiscal
2000; however, as this plan is further developed, the Company expects there to
be additional restructuring activities that could be substantial. As a result,
the Company will be required to record a potentially substantial charge to
operations associated with this restructuring in its fiscal quarter ended
October 1, 1999.

   In July 1999, the Board of Directors approved the adoption of the 1999 Stock
Option Plan (the "Plan"), subject to stockholder approval at the 1999 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders. The number of shares of common stock that will be
reserved for issuance under the Plan is estimated to be approximately 11
million.

                                       80
<PAGE>

                               SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


   Pursuant to a registration statement declared effective by the Securities
and Exchange Commission on August 9, 1999, the Company's Seagate Software
subsidiary sold an aggregate of 8,232,667 shares of VERITAS common stock for
proceeds of $396.8 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and
before expenses. Seagate Software acquired such shares in connection with the
contribution of the Network & Storage Management Group business to VERITAS. The
underwriters have an option to acquire an additional 909,833 shares of VERITAS
common stock to cover over-allotments from Seagate Software prior to September
8, 1999 at a per share price of $48.1925 (net of underwriting discounts and
commissions). In connection with the sale of the VERITAS shares, Seagate
Software agreed that it would not sell or otherwise dispose of any additional
shares of VERITAS common stock prior to November 7, 1999. Certain exceptions to
this limitation apply, including transfers to affiliated entities and the sale
of the remaining over-allotment option noted above.

   On August 17, 1999, SanDisk Corporation, a company in which Seagate holds an
equity interest, filed a registration statement with the Securities and
Exchange Commission in connection with a public offering of 3,000,000 shares of
its common stock. Of the 3,000,000 shares, 2,750,000 will be sold by SanDisk
and 250,000 will be sold by the Company.

   Concurrent with the equity offering, the Company will enter into a prepaid
forward contract with the SanDisk PEPS Trust in connection with a public
offering of an aggregate of $200 million of Premium Exchangeable Participating
Shares, or PEPS, of the Trust. The SanDisk PEPS Trust will offer the
underwriters an option to purchase an additional $30 million of PEPS to cover
any over-allotments in connection with the PEPS offering.

   In addition, Thomas F. Mulvaney, senior vice president, general counsel and
secretary of Seagate Technology, resigned from SanDisk's board of directors on
August 13, 1999.

                                       81
<PAGE>

                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Seagate Technology, Inc.

   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Seagate
Technology, Inc. as of July 2, 1999 and July 3, 1998, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended July 2, 1999. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule listed in the index at Item 14(a).
These consolidated financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and schedule referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial
position of Seagate Technology, Inc. at July 2, 1999 and July 3, 1998, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended July 2, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set
forth therein.

                                          Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California
July 15, 1999, except for the Subsequent Events note,
 as to which the date is August 17, 1999.

ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

   Not applicable.

                                       82
<PAGE>

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   Information regarding directors of the Company and compliance with Section
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are hereby
incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled "Election of
Directors" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,"
respectively, in the Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission
within 120 days of the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General
Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K. The information required by that Item concerning
executive officers is set forth in Part I of this Report.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

   The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

   The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

   The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the
Company's Proxy Statement to be filed with the Commission within 120 days of
the end of the Registrant's fiscal year pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to
Form 10-K.

                                       83
<PAGE>

                                    PART IV

   ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

   (a) The following documents are filed as a part of this Report:

   1. Financial Statements. The following Consolidated Financial Statements of
Seagate Technology, Inc. and Report of Independent Auditors are included in
Item 8:

     Report of Independent Auditors

     Consolidated Balance Sheets--July 2, 1999 and July 3, 1998.

     Consolidated Statements of Operations--Years Ended July 2, 1999; July 3,
  1998 and June 27, 1997.

     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity--Years Ended July 2,
  1999; July 3, 1998 and June 27, 1997.

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years Ended July 2, 1999; July 3,
  1998 and June 27, 1997.

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

   2. Financial Statement Schedules. The following consolidated financial
statement schedule of Seagate Technology, Inc. is filed as part of this Report
and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements
of Seagate Technology, Inc.:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     Schedule
     --------
     <S>                                    <C>
     II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
</TABLE>

   Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not
applicable or are not required or the information required to be set forth
therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or notes thereto.

                                      84
<PAGE>

3.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    Exhibits:                                                            Notes:
    ---------                                                            ------
 <C>          <S>                                                        <C>
       3.1    Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, as amended.     (A)
       3.2    By-Laws of Registrant, as amended.                          (B)
       4.1    Indenture, dated as of March 1, 1997 (the "Indenture"),     (C)
              between Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company")
              and First Trust of California, National Association, as
              Trustee.
       4.2    Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the        (C)
              Indenture, without Exhibits,
              establishing the terms of the Company's senior notes and
              senior debentures.
       4.3    Form of Senior Note.                                        (C)
       4.4    Form of Senior Debenture.                                   (C)
      10.1    1983 Incentive Stock Option Plan and form of Stock          (E)
              Option Agreement.
      10.2    Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as         (K)
              amended.
      10.3    Registrant's Executive Stock Plan.                          (I)
      10.4    Conner Peripherals, Inc. 1986 Incentive Stock Plan.         (I)
      10.5    Building Agreement for Land At Private Lot A14547 in Yio    (K)
              Chu Kang dated
              May 30, 1996 between Seagate Technology International
              and Jurong Town
              Corporation.
      10.6    Lease Agreement dated July 18, 1994 between Universal       (K)
              Appliances Limited
              and Seagate Technology (Thailand) Limited.
      10.7    1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and form of Option         (K)
              Agreement, as amended.
      10.8    Acquisition Agreement dated as of September 29, 1989 by     (G)
              and among Seagate
              Technology, Inc. and Control Data Corporation, Imprimis
              Technology
              Incorporated and Magnetic Peripherals, Inc.
      10.9    Amended and Restated Directors' Option Plan and form of     (H)
              Option Agreement.
      10.10   Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Stock Option       (I)
              and Restricted
              Stock Purchase Plan--1981.
      10.11   Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Incentive Stock    (I)
              Option Plan--1981.
      10.12   Conner Peripherals, Inc.--Arcada Holdings, Inc. Stock       (J)
              Option Plan.
      10.13   Arcada Holdings, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan.               (J)
      10.14   Separation Agreement and Release between the Registrant     (K)
              and Alan F. Shugart
              dated as of July 29, 1998.
      10.15   1998 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan and form of Stock
              Option Agreement.
      21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
      23.1    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
      24.1    Power of Attorney (included on page 87).
      27      Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(A) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 16,
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
    33-13430) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 14,
    1987.

(B) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14 (a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended June
    30, 1990.

(C) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(b),
    "Financial Statements and Exhibits" of the Company's Current Report on Form
    8-K dated March 4, 1997.

(E) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1983.

(G) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(c),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Current Report on Form-8K dated October 2,
    1989.

(H) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1991.

                                       85
<PAGE>

(I) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-00697) as filed with the
    Commission on February 5, 1996.

(J) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-01059) as filed with the
    Commission on February 21, 1996.

(K) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 1998.

  (b) Reports on Form 8-K. No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company
      during the quarter ended July 2, 1999 except for the following:

   On June 17, 1999, a report on Form 8-K was filed reporting the completion of
the sale of Seagate Software, Inc.'s Network & Storage Management Group
business to VERITAS Software Corporation on May 28, 1999. Seagate Software,
Inc. is a majority-owned subsidiary of the Registrant.

                                       86
<PAGE>

                                   SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                                                 /s/ Stephen J. Luczo
                                          By___________________________________
                                                  (Stephen J. Luczo, Chief
                                                    Executive Officer,
                                                 President and a Director)

Dated: August 25, 1999

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

   Know All Men By These Presents, that each person whose signature appears
below constitutes and appoints Stephen J. Luczo and Charles C. Pope, jointly
and severally, his or her attorney-in-fact, each with the power of
substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any and all
amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, including post-effective amendments,
and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or
substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             Signature                           Title                    Date
             ---------                           -----                    ----


<S>                                  <C>                           <C>
      /s/ Stephen J. Luczo           Chief Executive Officer,       August 25, 1999
____________________________________  President
         (Stephen J. Luczo)           and a Director (Principal
                                      Executive Officer)

      /s/ Charles C. Pope            Executive Vice President and   August 25, 1999
____________________________________  Chief Financial Officer
         (Charles C. Pope)            (Principal Financial and
                                      Accounting Officer)

       /s/ Gary B. Filler            Co-Chairman of the Board       August 25, 1999
____________________________________
          (Gary B. Filler)

      /s/ Lawrence Perlman           Co-Chairman of the Board       August 25, 1999
____________________________________
         (Lawrence Perlman)

      /s/ Kenneth Haughton           Director                       August 25, 1999
____________________________________
         (Kenneth Haughton)

      /s/ Robert A. Kleist           Director                       August 25, 1999
____________________________________
         (Robert A. Kleist)

     /s/ Thomas P. Stafford          Director                       August 25, 1999
____________________________________
        (Thomas P. Stafford)


    /s/ Laurel L. Wilkening          Director                       August 25, 1999
____________________________________
       (Laurel L. Wilkening)

</TABLE>


                                       87
<PAGE>

                            SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
         Col. A             Col. B      Col. C       Col. D        Col. E      Col. F
         ------             ------      ------       ------        ------      ------
                                              Additions
                                      --------------------------
                          Balance at  Charged to   Charged to    Deductions- Balance at
                           Beginning  Costs and  Other Accounts-  Describe     End of
      Description          of Period   Expenses     Describe         (1)       Period
      -----------         ----------  ---------- --------------- ----------- -----------
<S>                       <C>         <C>        <C>             <C>         <C>
Year Ended July 2, 1999:
 Deducted from asset
  accounts:
 Allowance for doubtful
  accounts..............  $54,130,000 $  457,000     $  --       $ 2,058,000 $52,529,000
                          =========== ==========     ======      =========== ===========
Year Ended July 3, 1998:
 Deducted from asset
  accounts:
 Allowance for doubtful
  accounts..............  $60,413,000 $1,182,000     $  --       $ 7,465,000 $54,130,000
                          =========== ==========     ======      =========== ===========
Year Ended June 27,
 1997:
 Deducted from asset
  accounts:
 Allowance for doubtful
  accounts..............  $66,656,000 $5,729,000     $  --       $11,972,000 $60,413,000
                          =========== ==========     ======      =========== ===========
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.

                                       88
<PAGE>

                            SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 Exhibits                                                                Notes:
 --------                                                                ------
 <C>      <S>                                                            <C>
   3.1    Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, as amended.          (A)
   3.2    By-Laws of Registrant, as amended.                               (B)
   4.1    Indenture, dated as of March 1, 1997 (the "Indenture"),          (C)
          between Seagate Technology, Inc. (the "Company") and First
          Trust of California, National Association, as Trustee.
   4.2    Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the             (C)
          Indenture, without Exhibits, establishing the terms of the
          Company's senior notes and senior debentures.
   4.3    Form of Senior Note.                                             (C)
   4.4    Form of Senior Debenture.                                        (C)
  10.1    1983 Incentive Stock Option Plan and form of Stock Option        (E)
          Agreement.
  10.2    Seagate Technology Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.     (K)
  10.3    Registrant's Executive Stock Plan.                               (I)
  10.4    Conner Peripherals, Inc. 1986 Incentive Stock Plan.              (I)
  10.5    Building Agreement for Land At Private Lot A14547 in Yio Chu     (K)
          Kang dated May 30, 1996 between Seagate Technology
          International and Jurong Town Corporation.
  10.6    Lease Agreement dated July 18, 1994 between Universal            (K)
          Appliances Limited and Seagate Technology (Thailand)
          Limited.
  10.7    1991 Incentive Stock Option Plan and form of Option              (K)
          Agreement, as amended.
  10.8    Acquisition Agreement dated as of September 29, 1989 by and      (G)
          among Seagate Technology, Inc. and Control Data Corporation,
          Imprimis Technology Incorporated and Magnetic Peripherals,
          Inc.
  10.9    Amended and Restated Directors' Option Plan and form of          (H)
          Option Agreement.
  10.10   Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Stock Option and        (I)
          Restricted Stock Purchase Plan--1981.
  10.11   Amended and Restated Archive Corporation Incentive Stock         (I)
          Option Plan--1981.
  10.12   Conner Peripherals, Inc.--Arcada Holdings, Inc. Stock Option     (J)
          Plan.
  10.13   Arcada Holdings, Inc. 1994 Stock Option Plan.                    (J)
  10.14   Separation Agreement and Release between the Registrant and      (K)
          Alan F. Shugart dated as of July 29, 1998.
  10.15   1998 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan and form of Stock Option
          Agreement.
  21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
  23.1    Consent of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors.
  24.1    Power of Attorney (included on page 87).
  27      Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>
- --------
(A) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 16,
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
    33-13430) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 14,
    1987.
(B) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14 (a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended June
    30, 1990.
(C) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(b),
    "Financial Statements and Exhibits" of the Company's Current Report on Form
    8-K dated March 4, 1997.
(E) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1983.
(G) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 7(c),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Current Report on Form-8K dated October 2,
    1989.
(H) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 1991.

                                       89
<PAGE>

(I) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-00697) as filed with the
    Commission on February 5, 1996.
(J) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed with Registrant's Registration
    Statement on Form S-8 (registration number 333-01059) as filed with the
    Commission on February 21, 1996.
(K) Incorporated by reference to exhibits filed in response to Item 14(a),
    "Exhibits," of the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended July 3, 1998.

                                       90
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.15
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>1998 NONSTATUTORY S STOCK OPTION PLAN AND AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.15

                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.
                      1998 NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION PLAN

     1.   Purposes of the Plan. The purposes of this 1998 Nonstatutory Stock
          --------------------
Option Plan are:

     .         to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions
               of substantial responsibility,
     .         to provide additional incentive to Employees and Directors, and
     .         to promote the success of the Company's business.

               Options granted under the Plan will be nonstatutory stock
               options.

     2.   Definitions. As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
          -----------

               (a)  "Administrator" means the Board or any of its Committees as
                     -------------
shall be administering the Plan, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

               (b)  "Applicable Laws" means the legal requirements relating to
                     ---------------
the administration of stock option plans under U.S. state corporate, U.S.
federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation
system on which the Shares are listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any
foreign country or jurisdiction where Options are, or will be, granted under the
Plan.

               (c)  "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
                     -----

               (d)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
                     ----

               (e)  "Committee" means a Committee appointed by the Board in
                     ---------
accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.

               (f)  "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Company.
                     ------------

               (g)  "Company" means Seagate Technology, Inc., a Delaware
                     -------
corporation.

               (h)  "Director" means a member of the Board.
                     --------

               (i)  "Disability" means total and permanent disability as defined
                     ----------
in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
<PAGE>

               (j)  "Employee" means any person employed by the Company or any
                     --------
parent, subsidiary or affiliate of the Company.

               (k)  "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
                     ------------
amended.

               (l)  "Fair Market Value" means, as of any date, the value of
                     -----------------
Common Stock determined as follows:

                    (i)  If the Common Stock is listed on any established
stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the
National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
Automated Quotation ("NASDAQ") System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of
Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing
bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the
exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the last
market trading day prior to the day of determination, as reported in the Wall
Street Journal or such other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

                   (ii)  If the Common Stock is quoted on the NASDAQ System
(but not on the National Market System thereof) or is regularly quoted by a
recognized securities dealer but selling prices are not reported, the Fair
Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the mean between the high bid
and low asked prices for the Common Stock on the last market trading day prior
to the day of determination, as reported in the Wall Street Journal or such
other source as the Administrator deems reliable;

                  (iii)  In the absence of an established market for the
Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the
Administrator.

               (m)  "Notice of Grant" means a written notice evidencing certain
                     ---------------
terms and conditions of an individual Option grant. The Notice of Grant is part
of the Option Agreement.

               (n)  "Option" means a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan,
                     ------
that is not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning
of Section 422 of the Code and the Regulations promulgated thereunder.

               (o)  "Option Agreement" means a written agreement between the
                     ----------------
Company and an Optionee evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual
Option grant. The Option Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the
Plan.
<PAGE>

               (p)  "Option Exchange Program" means a program whereby
                     -----------------------
outstanding options are surrendered in exchange for options with a lower
exercise price.

               (q)  "Optioned Stock" means the Shares subject to an Option.
                     --------------

               (r)  "Optionee" means the holder of an outstanding Option granted
                     --------
under the Plan.

               (s)  "Plan" means this 1998 Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan.
                     ----

               (t)  "Retirement" means the Optionee has reached the age of 55
                     ----------
years and has five (5) years of continuous service with the Company or one of
its subsidiaries and the Optionee elects to terminate his/her Continuous Status
as an Employee or Consultant.

               (u)  "Service Provider" means an Employee who is a Vice President
                     ----------------
or more senior employee or a Director.

               (v)  "Share" means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in
                     -----
accordance with Section 12 of the Plan.

     3.   Stock Subject to the Plan. Subject to the provisions of Section 12 of
          -------------------------
the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be optioned under the
Plan is 3,500,000. The Shares shall be previously issued and outstanding shares
that are reacquired by the Company, whether under this Plan or otherwise.

     If an Option expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised
in full, or is surrendered pursuant to an Option Exchange Program, the
unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future
grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated).

     4.   Administration of the Plan.
          --------------------------

               (a)  Administration. The Plan shall be administered by (i) the
                    --------------
Board or (ii) a Committee, which committee shall be constituted to satisfy
applicable laws.

               (b)  Powers of the Administrator. Subject to the provisions of
                    ---------------------------
the Plan, and in the case of a Committee, subject to the specific duties
delegated by the Board to such Committee, the Administrator shall have the
authority, in its discretion:
<PAGE>

               (i)  to determine the Fair Market Value of the Shares, in
accordance with Section 2(l) of the Plan;

              (ii)  to select Service Providers to whom Options may be granted
hereunder;

             (iii)  to determine whether and to what extent Options are granted
hereunder;

              (iv)  to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each
Option granted hereunder;

               (v)  to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan;

              (vi)  to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with
the terms of the Plan, of any award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions
include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when
Options may be exercised (which may be based on performance criteria), any
vesting acceleration or waiver of forfeiture restrictions, and any restriction
or limitation regarding any Option or the Shares relating thereto, based in each
case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall
determine;

             (vii)  to determine whether, to what extent and under what
circumstances and other amounts payable with respect to an award under this Plan
shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the participant
(including providing for and determining the amount (if any) of any deemed
earnings on any deferred amount during any deferral period);

            (viii)  to reduce the exercise price of any Option to the then
current Fair Market Value if the Fair Market Value of the Shares covered by such
Option shall have declined since the date the Option was granted;

              (ix)  to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan;

               (x)  to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations
relating to the Plan;

              (xi)  to modify or amend each Option (subject to Section 14 of the
Plan);

             (xii)  to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company
any instrument required to effect the grant of an Option previously granted by
the Administrator;
<PAGE>

                 (xiii)  to institute an Option Exchange Program;

                  (xiv)  to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to
Options; and

                   (xv)  to make all other determinations deemed necessary or
advisable for administering the Plan.

               (c)  Effect of Administrator's Decision. The Administrator's
                    ----------------------------------
decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all
Optionees and any other holders of Options.

     5.   Eligibility. Options may be granted to Service Providers. If otherwise
          -----------
eligible, a Service Provider who has been granted an Option may be granted
additional Options.

     6.   Limitations. Neither the Plan nor any Option shall confer upon an
          -----------
Optionee any right with respect to continuing the Optionee's relationship as a
Service Provider with the Company, nor shall they interfere in any way with the
Optionee's right or the Company's right to terminate such employment or
consulting relationship at any time, with or without cause.

     7.   Term of Plan. The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the
          ------------
Board. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years unless
terminated earlier under Section 14 of the Plan.

     8.   Term of Option. The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice
          --------------
of Grant.

     9.   Option Exercise Price and Consideration.
          ---------------------------------------

               (a)  Exercise Price. The per Share exercise price for the Shares
                    --------------
to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the
Administrator.

               (b)  Waiting Period and Exercise Dates. At the time an Option is
                    ---------------------------------
granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be
exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the
Option may be exercised. In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an
Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period.

               (c)  Form of Consideration. The Administrator shall determine the
                    ---------------------
acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method
of payment. Such consideration may consist entirely of:
<PAGE>

               (i)  cash;

              (ii)  check;

             (iii)  promissory note;

              (iv)  other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon
exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more than six months
on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of
surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said
Option shall be exercised;

               (v)  delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together
with such other documentation as the Administrator and the Optionee's broker, if
applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and delivery to
the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay the exercise price;

              (vi)  any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or

             (vii)  such other consideration and method of payment for the
issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws.

     10.  Exercise of Option.
          ------------------

          (a)  Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder. Any Option
               -----------------------------------------------
granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at
such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set
forth in the Option Agreement.

     An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.

     An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i) written
notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option Agreement) from the person
entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full payment for the Shares with
respect to which the Option is exercised. Full payment may consist of any
consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and
permitted by the Option Agreement and the Plan. Shares issued upon exercise of
an Option shall be issued in the name of the Optionee or, if requested by the
Optionee, in the name of the Optionee and his or her spouse. Until the stock
certificate evidencing such Shares is issued (as evidenced by the appropriate
entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the
Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a
shareholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the
<PAGE>

exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such
stock certificate promptly after the Option is exercised. No adjustment will be
made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the
date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 12 of the
Plan.

     Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of Shares
thereafter available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the
Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.

          (b)  Termination of Relationship as a Service Provider. In the event
               -------------------------------------------------
that an Optionee's relationship as a Service Provider terminates (other than
upon the Optionee's death, Retirement or Disability), the Optionee may exercise
his or her Option, but only within such period of time as is determined by the
Administrator, and only to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise
it at the date of termination (but in no event later than the expiration of the
term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant). If, at the date of
termination, the Optionee is not entitled to exercise his or her entire Option,
the Shares covered by the unexercisable portion of the Option shall revert to
the Plan. If, after termination, the Optionee does not exercise his or her
Option within the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall
terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan.

          (c)  Disability of Optionee. In the event that an Optionee's
               ----------------------
relationship as a Service Provider terminates as a result of the Optionee's
Disability, the Optionee may exercise his or her Option at any time within six
(6) months from the date of such termination, but only to the extent that the
Optionee was entitled to exercise it at the date of such termination (but in no
event later than the expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the
Notice of Grant). If, at the date of termination, the Optionee is not entitled
to exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unexercisable
portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan. If, after termination, the
Optionee does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified herein,
the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert
to the Plan.

          (d)  Death of Optionee. If the Optionee dies while a Service Provider,
               -----------------
the Option may be exercised at any time within six (6) months following the date
of death (but in no event later than the expiration of the term of such Option
as set forth in the Notice of Grant), by the Optionee's estate or by a
<PAGE>

person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance,
but only to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise the Option at
the date of death. If, at the time of death, the Optionee was not entitled to
exercise his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unexercisable
portion of the Option shall immediately revert to the Plan. If, after death, the
Optionee's estate or a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by
bequest or inheritance does not exercise the Option within the time specified
herein, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall
revert to the Plan.

          (e)  Retirement of Optionee: In the event of an Optionee's Retirement,
               ----------------------
the Optionee may exercise his or her Option (if such Option was granted on or
after August 27, 1998) at any time within three (3) years from the date of such
Retirement, but only to the extent that the Optionee was entitled to exercise it
at the date of such Retirement (but in no event later than the expiration of the
term of such Option as set forth in the Notice of Grant).

     11.  Transferability of Options.
          --------------------------

     (a)  Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Option may not be
sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner
other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and may be
exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee. If the
Administrator makes an Option transferable, such Option shall contain such
additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate.

     (b)  An Optionee may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to
receive any options that remain unexercised in the event of the Optionee's
death. If a participant is married and the designated beneficiary is not the
spouse, spousal consent shall be required for such designation to be effective.

     (c)  Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the Optionee at any
time by written notice, subject to the above spousal consent conditions. In the
event of the death of the Optionee and in the absence of a beneficiary validly
designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such Optionee's, the
Company shall deliver such options to the executor or administrator of the
estate of the Optionee, or if no such executor or administrator has been
appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may
deliver
<PAGE>

such options to the spouse or to any one or more dependents or relatives of the
participant, or if no spouse, dependent or relative is known to the Company,
then to such other person as the Company may designate.

     12.  Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger, Asset
          ----------------------------------------------------------------------
Sale or Change of Control.
- -------------------------

          (a)  Changes in Capitalization.  Subject to any required action by the
               -------------------------
shareholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding
Option, and the number of Shares that have been authorized for issuance under
the Plan but as to which no Options have yet been granted or that have been
returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Option, as well as
the price per Share covered by each such outstanding Option, shall be
proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued
Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend,
combination or reclassification of the Company's common stock, or any other
increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of the Company's common
stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided,
however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not
be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such
adjustment shall be made by the Board, whose determination in that respect shall
be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no
issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities
convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment
by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares
subject to an Option.

          (b)  Dissolution or Liquidation. In the event of the proposed
               --------------------------
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, to the extent that an Option has not
been previously exercised, it will terminate immediately prior to the
consummation of such proposed action. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole
discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall terminate as of a
date fixed by the Board and give each Optionee the right to exercise his or her
Option as to all or any part of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to which
the Option would not otherwise be exercisable.

          (c)  Merger or Asset Sale. Subject to the provisions of paragraph (d)
               --------------------
hereof, in the event of a merger of the Company with or into another
corporation, or the sale of substantially all of the assets of the Company, each
outstanding Option shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted
by the successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of the successor
<PAGE>

corporation. In the event that the successor corporation does not agree to
assume the Option or to substitute an equivalent option, the Administrator
shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the Optionee to
have the right to exercise the Option as to all or a portion of the Optioned
Stock, including Shares as to which it would not otherwise be exercisable. If
the Administrator makes an Option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or
substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Administrator shall
notify the Optionee that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of
fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option will terminate
upon the expiration of such period. For the purposes of this paragraph, the
Option shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets,
the option confers the right to purchase, for each Share subject to the Option
immediately prior to the merger or sale of assets, the consideration (whether
stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the merger or sale of
assets by holders of Shares held on the effective date of the transaction (and
if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration
chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares); provided,
however, that if such consideration received in the merger or sale of assets was
not solely stock of the successor corporation or its parent, the Administrator
may, with the consent of the successor corporation and the participant, provide
for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of the Option, for each
Share of Optioned Stock subject to the Option, to be solely stock of the
successor corporation or its parent equal in Fair Market Value to the per share
consideration received by holders of Stock in the merger or sale of assets.

          (d)  Change in Control. In the event of a "Change in Control" of the
               -----------------
Company, as defined in paragraph (e) below, then the following acceleration and
valuation provisions shall apply:

     (i)  Except as otherwise determined by the Board, in its discretion, prior
to the occurrence of a Change in Control, any Options outstanding on the date
such Change in Control is determined to have occurred that are not yet
exercisable and vested on such date shall become fully exercisable and vested;

     (ii) Except as otherwise determined by the Board, in its discretion, prior
to the occurrence of a Change in Control, all outstanding Options, to the extent
they are exercisable and vested (including Options that shall become exercisable
and vested pursuant to subparagraph (i) above), shall be terminated in exchange
for a cash payment equal to the Change in Control Price (reduced by the exercise
price applicable to such
<PAGE>

Options). These cash proceeds shall be paid to the Optionee or, in the event of
death of an Optionee prior to payment, to the estate of the Optionee or to a
person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance.

           (e)  Definition of "Change in Control". For purposes of this Section
                ---------------------------------
12, a "Change in Control" means the happening of any of the following:

     (i)   When any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)
of the Exchange Act (other than the Company, a subsidiary or a Company employee
benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee) is or
becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange
Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty
percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then
outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors;
or

     (ii)  The shareholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of
the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation
which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding
immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving
entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by
the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding
immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the shareholders of the
Company approve an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all
or substantially all the Company's assets; or

     (iii) A change in the composition of the Board of Directors of the Company,
as a result of which fewer than a majority of the directors are Incumbent
Directors.  "Incumbent Directors" shall mean directors who either (A) are
directors of the Company as of the date the Plan is approved by the
shareholders, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board of
Directors of the Company with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of
the Incumbent Directors at the time of such election or nomination (but shall
not include an individual whose election or nomination is in connection with an
actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors to the
Company).

           (f)  Change in Control Price. For purposes of this Section 12,
                -----------------------
"Change in Control Price" shall be, as determined by the Board, (i) the highest
Fair Market Value of a Share within the 60 day period immediately preceding the
date of
<PAGE>

determination of the Change in Control Price by the Board (the "60-Day Period"),
or (ii) the highest price paid or offered per Share, as determined by the Board,
in any bona fide transaction or bona fide offer related to the Change in Control
of the Company, at any time within the 60-Day Period, or (iii) some lower price
as the Board, in its discretion, determines to be a reasonable estimate of the
fair market value of a Share .

     13.  Date of Grant. The date of grant of an Option shall be, for all
          -------------
purposes, the date on which the Administrator makes the determination granting
such Option, or such other later date as is determined by the Administrator.
Notice of the determination shall be provided to each Optionee within a
reasonable time after the date of such grant.

     14.  Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
          -------------------------------------

          (a)  Amendment and Termination. The Board may at any time amend,
               -------------------------
alter, suspend or terminate the Plan.

          (b)  Effect of Amendment or Termination. No amendment, alteration,
               ----------------------------------
suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Optionee,
unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and the Administrator,
which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the Company.
Termination of the Plan shall not affect the Administrator's ability to exercise
the powers granted to it hereunder with respect to options granted under the
Plan prior to the date of such termination.

     15.  Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.
          ----------------------------------

          (a)  Legal Compliance. Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the
               ----------------
exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and
delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws, and shall be further
subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such
compliance.

          (b)  Investment Representations. As a condition to the exercise of an
               --------------------------
Option, the Company may require the person exercising such Option to represent
and warrant at the time of any such exercise that the Shares are being purchased
only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such
Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is
required.

     16.  Liability of Company. The inability of the Company to obtain authority
          --------------------
from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the
Company's counsel to be
<PAGE>

necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve
the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such
Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.

     17.  Reservation of Shares. The Company, during the term of this Plan, will
          ---------------------
at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be
sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
<PAGE>

                      1998 NONSTATUTORY STOCK OPTION PLAN

                             STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT

     Unless otherwise defined herein, the terms defined in the 1998 Nonstatutory
Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") shall have the same defined meanings in this
Option Agreement.

I.   NOTICE OF STOCK OPTION GRANT
     ----------------------------

     Employee Name

     You have been granted an option to purchase Shares of common stock of the
Company, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Stock Option
Agreement, as follows:

     Grant Number                      _______________

     Date of Grant                     _______________

     Vesting Commencement Date         _______________

     Exercise Price per Share          _______________

     Total Number of Shares Granted    _______________

     Total Exercise Price              _______________

     Type of Option:                   ___ Incentive Stock Option
                                       XX Nonstatutory Stock Option
                                       --

     Term/Expiration Date:      _______________


        Vesting Schedule:  This Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, in
        ----------------
accordance with the following schedule:

        On or after __________,  **       ** shares;
                                 ------------
        On or after __________,  **        ** shares;
                                 ------------
        On or after __________,  **        ** shares;
                                 ------------
        On or after __________,  **        ** shares;
                                 ------------

     Termination Period:
     ------------------

     This Option may be exercised, to the extent vested pursuant to the Vesting
Schedule set forth above, for (i) ninety (90) days after termination of
Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee or Consultant other than as a result
of death, Disability or Retirement,
<PAGE>

(ii) six (6) months after termination as a result of death or Disability, and
(iii) three (3) years after Retirement; provided, however, that in no event may
this Option be exercised later than the Term/Expiration Date as provided above.

     II.  AGREEMENT
          ---------

     1.   Grant of Option. The Plan Administrator of the Company hereby grants
          ---------------
to the Optionee named in the Notice of Grant attached as Part I of this
Agreement (the "Optionee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase a number of
Shares, as set forth in the Notice of Grant, at the exercise price per share set
forth in the Notice of Grant (the "Exercise Price"), subject to the terms and
conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference. Subject to
Section 14 of the Plan, in the event of a conflict between the terms and
conditions of the Plan and the terms and conditions of this Option Agreement,
the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail.

     2.   Exercise of Option.
          ------------------

          (a)  Right to Exercise.  This Option is exercisable during its term in
               -----------------
accordance with the Vesting Schedule set out in the Notice of Grant and the
applicable provisions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.

          (b)  Method of Exercise. This Option is exercisable by delivery of an
               ------------------
exercise notice, in the form attached as Exhibit A (the "Exercise Notice"),
which shall state the election to exercise the Option, the number of Shares in
respect of which the Option is being exercised (the "Exercised Shares"), and
such other representations and agreements as may be required by the Company
pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. The Exercise Notice shall be signed by
the Optionee and shall be delivered in person or by certified mail to the
Secretary of the Company. The Exercise Notice shall be accompanied by payment of
the aggregate Exercise Price as to all Exercised Shares. This Option shall be
deemed to be exercised upon receipt by the Company of such fully executed
Exercise Notice accompanied by such aggregate Exercise Price.

     No Shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of this Option unless
such issuance and exercise complies Applicable Laws.  Assuming such compliance,
for income tax purposes the Exercised Shares shall be considered transferred to
the Optionee on the date the Option is exercised with respect to such Exercised
Shares.

     3.   Method of Payment. Payment of the aggregate Exercise Price shall be by
          -----------------
any of the following, or a combination thereof, at the election of the Optionee:

          (a)  cash; or

          (b)  check; or

          (c)  delivery of a properly executed exercise notice together with
such other documentation as the Administrator and the

                                      -2-
<PAGE>

Optionee's broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the
Option and delivery to the Company of the sale or loan proceeds required to pay
the exercise price; or

         (d)  surrender of other Shares which (i) in the case of Shares acquired
upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Optionee for more than six
(6) months on the date of surrender, and (ii) have a Fair Market Value on the
date of surrender equal to the aggregate Exercise Price of the Exercised Shares.

     4.  Transferability of Option. This Option may not be transferred in any
         -------------------------
manner otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and may
be exercised during the lifetime of Optionee only by the Optionee. The terms of
the Plan and this Option Agreement shall be binding upon the executors,
administrators, heirs, successors and assigns of the Optionee.

     5.  Term of Option. This Option may be exercised only within the term set
         --------------
out in the Notice of Grant, and may be exercised during such term only in
accordance with the Plan and the terms of this Option Agreement.

     6.  Tax Consequences. Some of the federal tax consequences relating to this
         ----------------
Option, as of the date of this Option, are set forth below. THIS SUMMARY IS
NECESSARILY INCOMPLETE, AND THE TAX LAWS AND REGULATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO CHANGE.
THE OPTIONEE SHOULD CONSULT A TAX ADVISER BEFORE EXERCISING THIS OPTION OR
DISPOSING OF THE SHARES.

         (a)  Exercising the Option. The Optionee may incur regular federal
              ---------------------
income tax liability upon exercise of an NSO. The Optionee will be treated as
having received compensation income (taxable at ordinary income tax rates) equal
to the excess, if any, of the fair market value of the Exercised Shares on the
date of exercise over their aggregate Exercise Price. If the Optionee is an
Employee or former Employee, the Company will be required to withhold from his
or her compensation or collect from Optionee and pay to the applicable taxing
authorities an amount equal to a percentage of this compensation income at the
time of exercise, and may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to deliver
Shares if such withholding amounts are not delivered at the time of exercise.

         (b)  Disposition of Shares. If the Optionee holds NSO Shares for at
              ---------------------
least one year, any gain realized on disposition of the Shares will be treated
as long-term capital gain for federal income tax purposes.

     By your signature and the signature of the Company's representative below,
you and the Company agree that this Option is granted under and governed by the
terms and conditions of the Plan and this Option Agreement.  Optionee has
reviewed the Plan and this Option Agreement in their entirety, has had an
opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to executing this Option
Agreement and fully understands all provisions of the Plan and Option Agreement.
Optionee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions
or interpretations of the Administrator upon any questions relating to the Plan
and Option Agreement.

                                      -3-
<PAGE>

DATE OF GRANT: _______________


                           DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY
                           --------------------------

     In the event of my death, I hereby designate the following as my
beneficiary(ies) to receive all of my options that are unexercised at that time.

NAME:  (Please print)        _______________________________
                               (First)(Middle)(Last)

                     Address:_______________________________

_____________                _______________________________

Relationship                 _______________________________


OPTIONEE:                          SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

_____________________________      By:____________________________

(Signature)                        Title: Corporate Secretary

_____________________________

(Print Name)                       HOME ADDRESS (Please Print)

_____________________________      ________________________________

(Employee Number)                  ________________________________

_____________________________      ________________________________

(Work Phone Number)


Dated: ______________

                                     -4-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1
                           SEAGATE TECHNOLOGY, INC.

                        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION
NAME OF SUBSIDIARY                                                     OF INCORPORATION
- ------------------                                                     ----------------
<S>                                                                    <C>
Seagate Technology S.A.                                                France
Seagate Technology (Marlow) Limited                                    England
Seagate Technology GmbH                                                Germany
Seagate Technology AB                                                  Sweden
Nippon Seagate Inc.                                                    Japan
Seagate Technology Taiwan Ltd.                                         Taiwan
Seagate Technology Australia Pty. Limited                              Australia
Seagate Foreign Sales Corporation                                      Virgin Islands
Seagate Technology (Hong Kong) Limited                                 Hong Kong
Seagate Distribution (UK) Limited                                      Scotland
Seagate Singapore Distribution Pte. Ltd.                               Singapore
Quinta Corporation                                                     California
Seagate Storage Networking, Inc.                                       Delaware
Seagate Technology SAN/NAS                                             Delaware
Seagate Technology International                                       Cayman Islands, BWI
   Seagate Technology (Ireland)                                        Cayman Islands, BWI
   Seagate Technology (Ireland Holdings)                               Cayman Islands, BWI
   Penang Seagate Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd.                             Malaysia
   Seagate Technology Asia Holdings                                    Cayman Islands, BWI
      Senai Seagate Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd.                           Malaysia
   P.T. Seagate Technology                                             Indonesia
   Seagate Technology (Thailand) Limited                               Thailand
   Seagate Technology China Holding Company                            Cayman Islands, BWI
      Seagate Technology Shenzhen Co. Ltd.                             People's Republic of China
   Seagate Technology International (Wuxi) Co. Ltd.                    People's Republic of China
   Perai Seagate Storage Products Sdn. Bhd.                            Malaysia
   Seagate Technology Reynosa, S. de R.L. de C.V.                      Mexico
   Seagate Technology Media Mexico S.A. de C.V.                        Mexico
   Seagate Technology Media (Ireland)                                  Cayman Islands, BWI
   Seagate Technology (Barbados) Limited                               Barbados
      Seagate Technology International Holdings Limited                Barbados
      Seagate Software Information Management Group (Canada), Inc.     Canada
Seagate Technology Investments, Inc.                                   Delaware
Seagate Software, Inc.                                                 Delaware
   Seagate Software Pty. Limited                                       Australia
   Seagate Software Information Management Group AB                    Sweden
   Seagate Software S.A.                                               France
   Seagate Software S.r.l.                                             Italy
   Seagate Software Information Management Group Ltd.                  So. Africa
   Seagate Software Information Management Group Ltd.                  United Kingdom
      Seagate Software Information Management Group Ltd.               Spain
      Seagate Software Information Management Group Ltd.               So. Africa
   Seagate Software Information Management Group BV                    Holland
   Seagate Software (Hong Kong) Limited                                Hong Kong
   Nippon Seagate Software KK.                                         Japan
   Seagate Software Information Management Group GmbH                  Germany
   Seagate Software Information Pte. Ltd.                              Singapore
   Seagate Software Information Management Group (US), Inc.            Colorado
   Seagate Software International Holdings Ltd.                        Cayman Islands, BWI
   Seagate Software GmbH                                               Switzerland
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP. INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 23.1

               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

   We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
(Form S-8 No. 33-43911, 33-50973, 33-39916, 33-56215, 33-34793, 33-64339, 333-
00697, 333-01059, 333-40005, 333-70105) pertaining to the 1991 Incentive Stock
Option Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Executive Stock Option Plan
of Seagate Technology, Inc., the 1992 Conner Peripherals, Inc. Restricted Stock
Plan and the Arcada Holdings, Inc. Stock Option Plan of our report dated July
15, 1999, except for the Subsequent Events note, as to which the date is August
17, 1999, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of
Seagate Technology, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K), for the
year ended July 2, 1999.

                                          /s/ Ernst & Young LLP

San Jose, California,
August 24, 1999
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
CONSOLIDATED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET AS OF JULY 2, 1999 AND THE CONSOLIDATED
CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEAR ENDED JULY 2,1999 AND IS
QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUL-02-1999
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-04-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               JUL-02-1999
<CASH>                                             396
<SECURITIES>                                     1,227
<RECEIVABLES>                                      925
<ALLOWANCES>                                        53
<INVENTORY>                                        451
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 3,312
<PP&E>                                           3,533
<DEPRECIATION>                                   1,846
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                   7,072
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            1,540
<BONDS>                                            703
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                             3
<OTHER-SE>                                       3,560
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                     7,072
<SALES>                                          6,802
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 6,802
<CGS>                                            5,250
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    5,250
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                   760
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                  48
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  1,873
<INCOME-TAX>                                       697
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,176
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,176
<EPS-BASIC>                                       4.94
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     4.53


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
