-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Ne2J48pMxEqN2tX+3Yjv6dfrNxftiawvsuamNr7BmaUmvJm6FNiL7w/u5Rhg89VG
 GQc02+hgTnDRaSa1qaXxcg==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000790070-96-000007.txt : 19960328
<SEC-HEADER>0000790070-96-000007.hdr.sgml : 19960328
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000790070-96-000007
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		2
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19951230
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960327
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000790070
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC [3577]
		IRS NUMBER:				042680009
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09853
		FILM NUMBER:		96538946

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		171 SOUTH STREET
		CITY:			HOPKINTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01748-9103
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5084351000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		171 SOUTH STREET
		CITY:			HOPKINTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01748-9103
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<TEXT>


                              
                              
                              
                              
_____________________________________________________________



             SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              
                   WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                              
                              
                      _________________
                              
                              
                              
                              
                          FORM 10-K
                              
                              
           ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
           OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934




For the Fiscal Year Ended December 30, 1995       Commission File No 1-9853

                    ____________________
                              
                              
                       EMC CORPORATION
                              
                              
                              
     Massachusetts                             No. 04-2680009
State of Incorporation                         I.R.S. Employer Identification
                                                  Number


      171 South Street, Hopkinton, Massachusetts  01748
                 Telephone:  (508) 435-1000
                              
_____________________________________________________________

<PAGE>                              

             SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              
                   WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                              
                          FORM 10-K
                              
         ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
             THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                              
For the Fiscal Year Ended:                   Commission File Number 1-9853
December 30, 1995
                       EMC CORPORATION
   (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
                              
         Massachusetts                       04-2680009
(State or other jurisdiction                 (I.R.S. Employer Identification
of organization or incorporation)             Number)
                              
                      171 South Street
               Hopkinton, Massachusetts  01748
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
                              
                       (508) 435-1000
    (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                              
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class:               Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered:
Common Stock, $.01 par value       New York Stock Exchange
4 1/4% Convertible Subordinated    New York Stock Exchange
Notes due 2001
                              
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                              
                            None
                              
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

          Yes              X                      No


     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [    ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was $4,522,704,964 as of March
15, 1996.

     The number of shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value,
outstanding as of March 15, 1996 was 230,690,570.

             DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The information required in response to Part III of Form
10-K is hereby incorporated by reference to the specified
portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 8, 1996.

<PAGE>



ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

     EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries ("EMC" or the
"Company") design, manufacture, market and support a wide
range of storage-related hardware, software and service
products for the mainframe, open systems and network
computer storage markets worldwide. These products are sold
as storage solutions for customers utilizing a variety of
computer system platforms, including, but not limited to,
International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and IBM-
compatible mainframe, Unisys Corporation ("Unisys"),
Compagnie des Machines Bull S.A. ("Bull"), Hewlett-Packard
Company ("HP"), NCR Corporation ("NCR") and other open
systems platforms.  EMC storage products provide solutions
for a wide range of customer disk storage requirements, from
the highest performance mission critical applications to
extremely high capacity business support applications.

     The Company develops its products by integrating
technologically advanced, industry standard components and
devices with Company-designed proprietary hardware and
software technology. The Company's principal products are
based on Integrated Cached Disk Array ("ICDA") technology,
which combines high-speed semiconductor cache memory managed
by advanced caching algorithms, with industry standard disk
drives. These products include two families of Symmetrix
high speed ICDA-based storage systems, the Symmetrix 5000
(introduced in 1992) and the Symmetrix 3000 (announced in
June 1995), for the IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe, Unisys
and Bull mainframe, IBM AS/400 and open systems storage
markets.

     The Company also designs, manufactures and markets the
Harmonix series of high speed ICDA-based systems for the IBM
AS/400 computer market, and the Centriplex family of ICDA
products for the open systems storage marketplace.  In March
1996, the Company introduced its new Extended-Online Storage
("EOS") system.  This product is unique in the computer
industry as a new tier of storage solution for high
capacity, business support applications.

     Additionally, the Company markets tape back-up systems
and information management software for the mainframe, open
systems, IBM AS/400 and network  storage markets.  In March
1996, the Company introduced EMC Data Manager ("EDM"), an
integrated turnkey solution providing the highest
performance for network storage backup and recovery
requirements.

     EMC also develops software products to enhance the
capabilities and value of EMC's storage solutions. These
software products are either optional EMC controller-based
or host-based software.  Controller-based software resides
within the EMC system, while host-based software resides
within the customer's Central Processing Unit ("CPU").

     Controller-based software is offered in both the
mainframe and open systems storage markets. Examples of this
software include: Symmetrix Remote Data Facility ("SRDF"),
providing customer solutions to requirements such as
disaster recovery and extended distance data center
migration; Symmetrix Data Migration Services ("SDMS"), which
is a combined software and services offering that enables
customers to migrate mainframe data from older technology
disk devices to Symmetrix 5000 systems while applications
remain online; and Symmetrix Enterprise Storage Platform
("Symmetrix ESP"), which enables a single system from the
Symmetrix 5000 family to simultaneously store both mainframe
and open systems data.

     The Company's host-based software products provide
mainframe customers the ability to better manage their EMC
hardware environments. These products include the Symmetrix
Manager and SRDF Host Component software solutions.

     The customers for the Company's products are located
worldwide and represent a cross section of industries and
government agencies that range in size from Fortune 1000
companies to small businesses, and national to local
governments.  The Company markets its products worldwide
through its direct sales force, distributors and original
equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). During 1995, the Company
increased its direct sales capabilities by purchasing
certain assets of distributors and/or beginning direct sales
operations in the Nordic countries, South Africa and the
Asia Pacific region. All products sold directly to end users
are maintained and serviced by the Company or authorized
third party providers. Products sold through distributors or
OEMs are normally maintained by the resellers.

     EMC, a Massachusetts corporation, was incorporated in
1979 and has its corporate headquarters located at 171 South
Street, Hopkinton, Massachusetts.

Company Strategy

     The Company's objective is to be the industry's
independent storage solutions leader by providing hardware,
software and service products to the mainframe, open systems
and network computer storage markets.  Part of the Company's
strategy is to differentiate its products by incorporating
features and functions that provide competitive advantage
for EMC customers. This differentiation has traditionally
been delivered through EMC's high performance and
availability storage products.

Innovative Architectural Design.

     The Company has developed a common architecture, called
MOSAIC:2000, on which its principal products are based. This
architectural philosophy is based upon a modular design and
industry standard interfaces that allow new technologies to
be incorporated more rapidly than with traditional
architectures. This facilitates integration into a variety
of computer environments, and upgrade and enhancement
capabilities that extend the useful life of the Company's
storage systems and, potentially, customer's other computer-
related assets. This architectural design has enabled the
Company to expand its offerings in existing markets and has
enabled the Company to continue to enter new, strategic markets.

Proprietary Software Technology

     A major strategic asset of the Company is the
proprietary software utilized to provide primary and
extended functionality for the Company's storage products.
This proprietary controller software provides significant
flexibility, enabling the Company to scale hardware
platforms for many customer application requirements. The
primary functionality provided by the controller-based
software provides advanced intelligence to the ICDA
architecture, integrating industry standard hardware
components, such as high speed cache memory, disk drives and
other devices to enhance the performance, reliability,
availability, connectivity and functionality of the
Company's storage systems.

Mainframe Market

     The mainframe storage market is estimated to be a multi-
billion dollar market, which the Company has penetrated with
its ICDA-based products.  Product sales to the mainframe
market represented approximately 76%, 88% and 82%,
respectively, of EMC's 1995, 1994 and 1993 product revenues.

     In 1990, EMC introduced the first Symmetrix series for
the IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe storage market.
Symmetrix was the first commercially available intelligent
disk storage system for this marketplace that integrated
highly sophisticated controller software with large amounts
of cache memory and arrays of industry standard 5.25" (and
more recently, 3.5") disk drives. This combination continues
to provide customers with unique advantages and capabilities
including: high performance disk storage, operating system
independence for easy integration into existing computer
environments; built-in redundancy and availability features
allowing for higher data availability and continuous
operations; and small footprint and low environmental
requirements for low cost of ownership.

     Since the first Symmetrix model, with a maximum
capacity of 24GB, the Company has continued to enhance and
increase the capabilities of the Symmetrix family. The
Company's current mainframe product offering is the
Symmetrix 5000 family which includes the 5100, 5200, and
5500 series of systems. The Symmetrix 5000 family members
share a common architecture and components, with the main
differentiator being capacity and host connectivity
capabilities. The Symmetrix 5100, 5200, and 5500 offer up to
136GB, 402GB, and 1 terabyte of mainframe storage capacity,
respectively. The Company believes that the Symmetrix 5000
family is the highest performance and availability mainframe
storage solution in the market.

     A significant factor in Symmetrix market success has
been the unique controller-based software that all Symmetrix
5000 family members support. These include SRDF and SDMS as
business continuance solutions, Symmetrix ESP for
simultaneous support of mainframe and open systems
computers, and Multi-Path Locking Facility ("MPLF"), which
enhances transportation industry application support.

     Additionally, EMC offers mainframe host-based software
products that improve the management of specific EMC systems
and products including Symmetrix Manager and SRDF Host
Component.

     In March 1996, EMC entered a new segment of the
mainframe market with a unique solution for high capacity
applications that require disk-based storage and better
application response time than can be provided by
traditional offline storage offerings.  EOS has defined a
new tier in the storage hierarchy, between traditional
online disk storage and offline storage, such as tape or
optical disk.  EOS is targeted at specific business support
applications that previously had no appropriate storage
platform.  EOS provides over one terabyte of maximum
capacity.

Open Systems Market

     The open systems storage market is estimated to be a
multi-billion dollar market with extremely fast growth in
storage requirements, which EMC's products have only
recently begun to penetrate.  The driving force behind this
growth is the focus on developing new customer applications
on open systems platforms. Unix and client/server
application developments continue to increase the storage
requirements for the many processing platforms available in
this market.  Revenues to the open systems market
represented approximately 11% of EMC's product revenues in
1995.

     The Company's first major product in this market was
the Centriplex family of ICDA products introduced in
November 1994.  In June 1995, the Company introduced the
Symmetrix 3000 family for the open systems storage
marketplace.  The Symmetrix 3000 family provides a unique
solution for the open systems marketplace, with high
performance and availability for mission and business
critical applications. The Symmetrix 3000 family includes
the 3100, 3200 and 3500 series of systems, which support up
to 139GB, 408GB, and 1 terabyte of open systems storage
capacity, respectively. The Symmetrix 3000 family also
supports the SRDF software for mission critical information
availability requirements.

     HP and NCR, formerly AT&T Global Information Solutions,
signed agreements with EMC during 1995 to market and resell
the Symmetrix 3000 family of products worldwide into their
respective markets. See "OEM Channels".

IBM AS/400 Market

     In 1992, the Company introduced the first ICDA-based
storage systems for the IBM AS/400 computer market, the
Harmonix family.  The Harmonix family integrates cache
memory with both 5.25" and 3.5" disk drives to provide high
performance, high capacity storage solutions. During 1994,
the Company expanded the Harmonix family to include models
featuring high capacity at a lower cost, and models
emphasizing high availability. Revenues from the Harmonix
family declined during 1995, with product sales representing
approximately 5%, 10%, and 15%, respectively, of EMC product
revenue in 1995, 1994 and 1993.

     During 1995, both the Symmetrix 5000 and Symmetrix 3000
families introduced support for the AS/400 computer environments.

     EMC also offers the Voyager family of 8 millimeter
("mm") based Intelligent Cached Tape Subsystems, which
provide AS/400 users high capacity, high performance and
unattended backup capabilities. These products feature an
advanced controller design and cache buffer combined with
the ability to interleave data to up to four 8mm tape
transports simultaneously, greatly improving the speed of
backup operations. EMC's acquisition of Magna Computer
Corporation ("Magna") augmented the Voyager family by adding
4mm, additional 8mm, and reel-to-reel tape products to the
Company's portfolio.

Network Market

     The network market is estimated to have extremely high
potential for storage requirements, which EMC's products
have only recently begun to penetrate.  In 1995, product
sales to the network market represented 8% of EMC's product
revenue.

     In 1995, the Company introduced Epoch Data Manager, the
Company's first network attached storage solution.  In March
1996, the Company introduced EDM, a significant enhancement
of Epoch Data Manager. EDM is an integrated network storage
backup solution, with intelligent proprietary software
providing resource management to integrated disk and
automated tape library hardware components.  EDM offers high
performance integrated network backup and recovery.  In
addition, EDM is extremely scalable in both capacity and
performance, and is the leading solution for relational
database backup requirements.

     EMC is currently engaging in research and development
of products for the network market in the areas of network
file access, video, centralized backup repository and other
network data access services.

     In December 1995, the Company completed the acquisition
of McDATA Corporation ("McDATA").  McDATA designs,
manufactures, markets and supports high performance
information switching products, delivering innovative
networking solutions for large-scale computing applications,
including local, metropolitan and wide-area connectivity.
McDATA's primary product is the ESCON Director, a high-speed
fiber-optic-based network switch designed to connect
computers and peripherals within data center environments.
The ESCON Director is marketed by IBM under an exclusive OEM
agreement with McDATA.  The Company believes that this
acquisition will help position EMC at the center of the
networked data and open systems marketplaces, thereby
permitting EMC to play an even more critical role in helping
EMC's customers establish information-centric computing
strategies.

Marketing and Customers

     EMC markets its products through multiple distribution
channels, including its direct sales force, selected
distributors and OEMs.  The Company has a direct sales
presence throughout North America, Europe, South Africa and
the Asia Pacific region and uses distributors as its primary
distribution channel in other areas of the world.  Over the
past two years, the Company has expanded its sales and
marketing organizations significantly in all major
geographies of the world.  In June 1995, EMC purchased
certain assets from its South African distributor and has
been selling direct in South Africa since that time.  In
September 1995, EMC purchased certain assets from its
distributor in Sweden and has been selling direct in the
Nordic countries since that time.

     During 1995, the Company derived 64% of its product
revenue from shipments into North and South America, 29%
from shipments into Europe, the Middle East and Africa, and
7% from shipments into the Asia Pacific region.  The Company
has dedicated personnel to support the needs of its
customers in the mainframe, open systems and IBM AS/400
storage markets and also of its distributors and OEM
customers, both domestically and internationally.

     The Company's strategy is to continue to expand its
markets in storage solutions. Specific targeted storage
markets include: the IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe
storage market, the open systems market, the network storage
market and the Bull and Unisys storage markets.

Multi-Channel Distribution Focus

     The Company has adopted a multi-channel distribution
approach to sell its products in those large markets of the
world which the Company believes have a demand for its
products. The Company's distribution channels include a
direct sales force, distributors and OEMs.

OEM Channels

     The MOSAIC:2000 architectural philosophy, and the
flexibility it provides, make EMC's products well suited for
sale by strategic OEMs in partnership with the Company. The
Company believes that with the new open systems capabilities
introduced in 1995, revenues from the OEM market will increase.

     Since January 1992, EMC has had an OEM Agreement with
Unisys for the sale of Unisys-compatible Symmetrix systems.
Unisys maintains worldwide marketing rights to both the
Symmetrix and Modarray products for use with Unisys systems,
subject to certain terms and conditions.

     In February 1993, the Company entered into an OEM
agreement with Bull. This agreement granted Bull exclusive
worldwide marketing rights, with the exception of Japan, to
EMC's Symmetrix 4800 series for use with Bull mainframe
computers as Bull's solution for all high speed disk
requirements.  In June 1995, certain systems in the
Symmetrix 5000 family were added to this agreement.  In
March 1996, the Company extended this agreement to add the
Symmetrix ESP.

     On October 31, 1995, the Company entered into a
reseller agreement with HP wherein HP will market and resell
the Symmetrix 3000 family of systems worldwide for
connection to HP's 9000 series computers.  The agreement
currently extends to June 30, 1997.

     On November 2, 1995, the Company entered into an OEM
agreement with NCR to market and sell the Symmetrix 3000
family of systems under an NCR label worldwide for
connection to NCR's WorldMark brand of enterprise server
systems.  The agreement currently extends to November 2, 1998.

Operations

     EMC's products utilize the Company's engineering
designs, with industry standard and semi-custom components
and subsystems. EMC's products are assembled and tested
primarily at the Company's facilities in Massachusetts and
Cork, Ireland.  Product components manufactured by
subcontractors in the U.S. and Europe are assembled in
accordance with production standards and quality controls
established by EMC.  The Company believes its present level
of manufacturing capacity, along with its current plans for
expansion, will be sufficient to accommodate its requirements.

     The Company has implemented a Total Quality Management
philosophy to ensure the quality of its designs,
manufacturing process and suppliers.  The Company's
operations in Massachusetts currently hold an ISO 9001
Certificate of Registration from National Quality Assurance,
Ltd.  This internationally recognized endorsement of ongoing
quality management represents the highest level of
certification available.  The Company's Irish manufacturing
operation holds ISO 9002 registration.  The Company's
principal manufacturing operation in Hopkinton,
Massachusetts has also been awarded Class A MRP II status by
an independent evaluation organization.

Manufacturing Risks

     The Company's products operate near the limits of
electronic and physical performance and are designed and
manufactured with relatively small tolerances. If flaws in
design, production, assembly or testing occur on the part of
EMC or its suppliers, EMC may experience a rate of failure
in its products that results in substantial repair or
replacement costs and potential damage to EMC's reputation.
Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities and
control of material and manufacturing quality and costs will
be critical factors in the future growth of EMC. EMC
frequently revises and updates manufacturing and test
processes to address engineering and component changes to
its products and evaluates the reallocation of manufacturing
resources among its facilities.  There can be no assurance
that EMC's efforts to monitor, develop and implement
appropriate test and manufacturing processes for its
products, especially the Symmetrix series of products will
be sufficient to permit EMC to avoid a rate of failure in
its products that results in substantial delays in shipment,
repair or replacement costs and potential damage to EMC's
reputation, any of which could have substantial adverse
effects on EMC's operations and ultimately on its financial results.

     The Company purchases certain components and products
from suppliers who the Company believes are currently the
only suppliers of those components or products that meet the
Company's requirements.  Among the most important components
that the Company uses are high density memory components
("DRAMs") and 5.25" and 3.5" disk drives, which the Company
purchases from a small number of qualified suppliers.  A
failure by any supplier of high density DRAMs or disk drives
to meet the Company's requirements for an extended period of
time could have a material adverse effect on the Company.
From time to time during 1995, because of high industry
demand and/or the inability of certain vendors to
consistently meet on a timely basis the Company's component
quality standards, the Company experienced delays in
deliveries of high density DRAMs and disk drives needed to
satisfy orders for ICDA products.  The Company is currently
working with such vendors to correct these problems and is
also seeking alternative sources of supply.  If shortages
and/or quality problems were to intensify, the Company could
lose some time-sensitive customer orders which could
adversely affect quarterly revenues and earnings.

Competition

     In the mainframe market, EMC competes primarily with
IBM for the sale of the Company's storage products. The
Company believes that it has a number of competitive
advantages over IBM, especially in the areas of product
performance, value-added software capabilities, time to
market enhancements and cost of ownership. The Company
realizes that IBM has certain competitive advantages
including significantly greater financial and technological
resources, the ability to provide more complex hardware and
software in packaged solutions, a larger distribution
capability, access to high-level customer decision makers,
and high levels of customer loyalty. Other important
elements of competition in the computer storage industry are
product reliability and quality, continuing technological
improvements, marketing and customer service, and product
design.  There are also a number of independent competitors
in the mainframe market including Hitachi Data Systems,
Storage Technology Corporation ("STK") and Amdahl Corporation.

     In the open systems market the Company's major
competition is provided by systems vendors who integrate
internal disk devices within their CPU platforms, including
IBM, Digital Equipment Corporation and Sun Microsystems
Corporation.  The Company believes that its major
independent storage competitor in this market is Data
General Corporation.  In the Company's opinion, the major
competitive advantage of the open systems vendors is their
overall market presence and ability to provide integrated
CPU, storage and software packages.  However, EMC believes
that it has advantages over these competitors in
performance, capacity and software features.

     In the IBM AS/400 market, competition has historically
come from IBM, STK and smaller companies. IBM's market
presence and its integrated solutions afford IBM a
significant advantage in this marketplace. With regard to
independent storage providers, EMC believes that it has
advantages over these AS/400 competitors in performance,
availability and feature capabilities.

Technological Factors

     The computer data storage industry is characterized by
rapidly changing technology and user needs which require
ongoing technological development and introduction of new
products.  Recognizing this fact, the Company developed a
storage system architecture called MOSAIC:2000 to allow the
Company to take better advantage of technological
developments.  By employing this architectural approach to
product development, EMC is able to quickly integrate new
technologies into its basic design.  The Company works
closely with its suppliers to understand their technology
direction and to plan for the integration of this technology
into its product architecture.  The Symmetrix series, the
Harmonix series and the Centriplex family of products all
use the MOSAIC:2000 architecture.

     In 1995, sales of the Symmetrix series remained the
most significant source of revenues for the Company and
sales of such products are expected to continue to be the
principal source of revenues during 1996.  The Company
expects competition in the sales of ICDA-based products to
increase and there can be no assurance that the Symmetrix
series of products will continue to achieve market
acceptance.  Significant delays in the development of ICDA
technology for future products or product enhancements would
be to the advantage of the Company's competitors, some of
whom have significantly greater resources, and could
ultimately affect the Company's financial condition.
Furthermore, the continued development of ICDA technology
and its incorporation into the Company's future generations
of products cannot be assured even with significant
additional investments.

Product Development

     EMC's ability to compete successfully in present and
future markets depends upon the timely development and
introduction of products offering price/performance or
capacity advantages and compatibility with the computer
systems or networks for which they are designed.  Achieving
these goals requires that the Company remain abreast of
changing technology and design products that operate within
the architecture of various computer systems and deliver
performance or capacity advantages not offered by the
original systems developer or by other storage competitors.
Moreover, the computer industry is subject to rapid
technological developments.  Consequently, achieving such
goals may become more difficult, costly and time consuming
as a result of technological developments that cannot now be
foreseen.  Research and development costs were $162,611,000,
$117,922,000, and $58,977,000 for the fiscal years ended
December 30, 1995, December 31, 1994, and January 1, 1994,
respectively.

Backlog

     The Company manufactures its products on the basis of
its forecast of near-term demand and maintains inventory in
advance of receipt of firm orders from customers.  Orders
are generally shipped by the Company shortly after receipt
of the order.  Customers may reschedule orders with little
or no penalty.  For these reasons, the Company's backlog at
any particular time is not necessarily indicative of future
sales levels.

Employees

     As of February 29, 1996, EMC had approximately 4,100
employees worldwide including temporary employees.
Continued growth in the Company's business will require the
hiring of additional personnel qualified in the Company's
leading edge technology, of which there can be no assurance.
None of the Company's domestic employees is represented by a
labor union, and the Company has never suffered an
interruption of business as a result of a labor dispute.
The Company considers its relations with its employees to be
good.

Dependence Upon Key Personnel

     The Company's success is highly dependent upon senior
management and other key employees, the loss of whom could
adversely affect the Company.  The Company also believes
that its future success will depend in large part upon its
ability to attract and retain additional key employees, of
which there can be no assurance.

Environment

     The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to
numerous laws and regulations designed to protect the
environment, particularly from wastes generated as a result
of assembling certain EMC products.  The cost of compliance
with such regulations has not to date involved a significant
expense or had a material effect on the capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position of the Company.

Patents

     EMC has been granted and/or owns by assignment over
fifty (50) United States patents.  The Company also has over
one hundred (100) patent applications pending in the U.S.
relating to its products for the mainframe, midrange, open
systems and network storage markets.  While the Company
believes that the pending applications relate to patentable
devices or concepts, there can be no assurance that any
patents will issue or that any patent issued can be
successfully defended or held valid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, or that such patents will provide protection
against competitive technology that circumvents such
patents.  Although the Company believes that its patents and
applications have significant value, the rapidly changing
technology of the computer industry makes EMC's future
success dependent upon the technical competence and creative
skills of its personnel rather than on patent protection.
See also "Recent Developments" and "Legal Proceedings".

Earnings Fluctuations

     Due to (i) customers' tendencies to make purchase
decisions late in each fiscal quarter, (ii) the desire by
customers to evaluate new, more expensive products for
longer periods of time, (iii) the timing of product and
technology announcements by the Company and its competitors,
and (iv) fluctuating currency exchange rates, the Company's
period-to-period revenues and earnings can fluctuate
significantly.

Recent Developments

     On January 25, 1996, the Company announced that its
Board of Directors had authorized a common stock repurchase
program of up to 15 million shares over a five-year period.
The repurchased shares will be used primarily to issue
shares upon exercise of options and purchase of shares under
the Company's stock option and stock purchase plans,
respectively.

     On February 12, 1996, the Company announced that it had
signed a definitive agreement to acquire the patent
portfolio of MTI Technology Corporation, covering 29 patents
and pending applications in the areas of RAID (Redundant
Arrays of Independent Disks), fault tolerant and network
technologies.

Financial Information About Foreign and Domestic Operations
and Export Sales

     The Company is active in primarily one business
segment:  designing, manufacturing and marketing high
performance storage products.  Information by geographic
area is presented below with exports shown in their area of
origin.  Sales and marketing operations outside the U.S. are
conducted through sales subsidiaries and branches located
principally in Europe and the Asia Pacific region.  The U.S.
market amounted to greater than 95% of the Company's sales,
income and identifiable assets in the North/South America
segment.

     Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are
accounted for at prices which are designed to be
representative of unaffiliated party transactions. 
(Amounts are in thousands.)

                            Europe,
              North/South   Middle East,   Asia      Elimi-      Consolidated
              America       Africa         Pacific   nations     Total

1995
Sales          $1,230,223   $567,303     $123,749   $    ---     $1,921,275
Transfers between
 areas            134,073    141,003           10   (275,086)           ---

Total sales     1,364,296    708,306      123,759   (275,086)     1,921,275
Income from 
 operations       264,168    176,293        1,805     (6,487)       435,779
Identifiable assets at
 year end       1,669,928    144,081       77,923   (146,203)     1,745,729


1994
Sales            $871,048   $449,467      $56,977   $     ---    $1,377,492
Transfers between
 areas            123,587     61,577          110    (185,274)          ---

Total sales       994,635    511,044       57,087    (185,274)    1,377,492
Income (loss) 
 from operations  155,544    196,658          (97)     (1,573)      350,532
Identifiable assets at
 year end       1,230,883    171,233       36,437    (121,053)    1,317,500


1993
Sales            $526,771   $251,363       $4,487    $    ---      $782,621
Transfers between
 areas            100,237     83,726          ---    (183,963)          ---

Total sales       627,008    335,089        4,487    (183,963)      782,621
Income (loss)
 from operations  107,512     70,324         (990)      3,582       180,428
Identifiable assets at
 year end         684,576    192,682        2,383     (49,995)      829,646


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company's mainframe marketing, research and
development, and manufacturing functions are located in a
249,000 square foot complex at 171 South Street in
Hopkinton, Massachusetts.  This building complex consists of
a building purchased in December 1986, and an adjacent
building constructed in 1988 and occupied in January 1989.

     In October 1992, EMC purchased a 62,000 square foot
facility and an additional 9 acres of land at 42 South
Street in Hopkinton, Massachusetts.  This facility has been
renovated by the Company and is in use as its customer
demonstration center and for certain administrative
functions.  In November 1993, the Company transferred
certain of its corporate and administrative functions to a
leased 80,000 square foot building at 35 Parkwood Drive in
Hopkinton, Massachusetts.

     In July 1994, the Company leased a 255,000 square foot
building at 5-9 Technology Drive, Milford, Massachusetts
that is in use for the Company's customer service, OEM
sales, quality and certain research and development and
production functions.  The Company currently leases other
buildings in Hopkinton, Massachusetts for certain
manufacturing, quality control and marketing functions.

     Production currently is carried on in the Hopkinton
facilities at 171 South Street and Avenue E, the Milford
facility and an 87,000 square foot facility owned by the
Company in Cork, Ireland.  The Company is currently
expanding the facility in Ireland by 80,000 square feet.

     The Company also leases space for its sales and service
offices and certain research and development facilities worldwide.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     On June 10, 1993, STK filed suit against EMC in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado
alleging that EMC is infringing three patents.  In the
complaint, STK seeks injunctive relief, unspecified damages,
including treble damages, plus attorney's fees and costs.
On July 20, 1993, EMC answered the complaint, denied STK's
allegations and counterclaimed.  In the counterclaims, EMC
seeks unspecified damages, attorney's fees, costs and
interest.  In a court hearing on October 12, 1994, STK's
claims on two of the three patents were dismissed with
prejudice.  No trial date has been set in this proceeding.

     On September 23, 1994, EMC filed suit against STK in
the United States District Court for Delaware alleging that
STK is infringing one EMC patent.  In the complaint, EMC
seeks injunctive relief and unspecified damages, including
treble damages, plus attorney's fees and costs. On October
12, 1994, STK answered the complaint, denied any
infringement and counterclaimed.  STK has subsequently filed
an additional counterclaim.  EMC has denied STK's
allegations.  Discovery on this case is currently in
process.  A trial is currently scheduled for October 1996.

    The Company is a party to other litigation which it
considers routine and incidental to its business.
Management does not expect the results of any of these
actions to have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business or financial condition.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company's
stockholders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year
covered by this report.

            EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

Name                     Age       Position

Richard J. Egan          60        Chairman of the Board and Director
Michael C. Ruettgers     53        President, Chief Executive Officer
                                   and Director
John R. Egan             38        Executive Vice President, Sales and     
                                   Marketing and Director
Joel Beck                57        Senior Vice President, Operations
L. Daniel Butler         57        Senior Vice President, Customer Service
Raymond Fortune          56        Senior Vice President, International Sales
Michael A. Klayko        41        Senior Vice President, North American Sales
Robert T. O'Connell      57        Senior Vice President, Chief Staff Officer
James B. Rothnie         47        Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing
Neal M. Waddington       49        Senior Vice President, Enterprise Alliances
Paul T. Dacier           38        Vice President and General Counsel
Colin G. Patteson        47        Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
                                   and Treasurer
William J. Teuber, Jr.   44        Vice President and Controller


     Richard J. Egan is a founder of the Company and has
served as a Director since the Company's inception in 1979.
He was elected Chairman of the Board of the Company in
January 1988. Prior to January 1988, he was also President
of EMC. From 1979 to January 1992, he was Chief Executive
Officer of the Company.  He is also a director of Cognition
Corporation, a CAD/CAM software supplier.

     Michael C. Ruettgers served as Executive Vice
President, Operations of EMC from July 1988 to October 1989,
when he became President. From October 1989 to January 1992,
Mr. Ruettgers served as Chief Operating Officer of EMC. In
January 1992, he became Chief Executive Officer and in May
1992, he was elected a Director of the Company.  Before
joining EMC, he was Chief Operating Officer at Technical
Financial Services, Incorporated, a high technology
consulting company, from February 1987 to July 1988.  He is
also a director of Cross Comm, Inc., a manufacturer of
computer network products, and Commonwealth Energy Corp., a
diversified energy company.

     John R. Egan became Executive Vice President, Sales and
Marketing of EMC in January 1992 and was elected a Director
in May 1992.  Previously he held several executive positions
with the Company, including Executive Vice President,
International Sales and Executive Vice President, Marketing.

     Joel Beck joined EMC in July 1995 as Senior Vice
President, Operations.  Previously, he served in several
executive positions with Bull Electronics-U.S., a computer
manufacturer, including Vice President of U.S. manufacturing
from 1987 to July 1993 and as President from July 1993 to
July 1995.

     L. Daniel Butler joined EMC in August 1990 as Vice
President of Customer Service and became Senior Vice
President of Customer Service in February 1993.  Prior to
joining EMC, Mr. Butler was the founder and President of
DMX, Inc., an electronic board assembling company, from
October 1989 to August 1990.  From October 1987 to September
1989, he was Director of Logistics Planning at Data General
Corporation, a computer manufacturer.

     Raymond Fortune joined EMC in July 1994 as Senior Vice
President, International Sales.  From November 1989 to March
1991, Mr. Fortune was Executive Vice President of Commercial
Products, and from May 1993 to June 1994 he was Chief
Operating Officer, at Kendall Square Research Corporation, a
computer manufacturer.  From May 1991 to April 1993, Mr.
Fortune was Chief Executive Officer at Ultra Network
Technologies, Incorporated, a high speed networking products
manufacturer.

     Michael A. Klayko joined EMC in March 1996 as Senior
Vice President, North American Sales.  From August 1992 to
February 1996, Mr. Klayko was Worldwide Marketing Manager,
Computer Systems Organization at Hewlett-Packard Company, a
computer manufacturer.  From 1979 to 1992, Mr. Klayko held
various positions in marketing and sales at IBM Corporation,
a computer manufacturer.

     Robert T. O'Connell joined EMC in July 1995 as Senior
Vice President, Chief Staff Officer.  Previously, he held
several executive positions with General Motors Corporation,
an automotive manufacturer, including Chairman and CEO of
General Motors Acceptance Corporation from 1992 to 1994 and
Chief Financial Officer of General Motors Corporation from
1988 to 1992.

     James B. Rothnie joined EMC in October 1995 as Senior
Vice President, Corporate Marketing.  Previously, he was
Vice President of Software Development at Data General
Corporation, a computer manufacturer, from October 1994 to
October 1995.  From 1987 to 1994, Mr. Rothnie served in
several executive capacities at Kendall Square Research
Corporation, a computer manufacturer, most recently as
Executive Vice President.

     Neal M. Waddington joined EMC in November 1994 as
Senior Vice President and General Manager of EMC's Open
Storage Group and became Senior Vice President, Enterprise
Alliances in January 1996.  From May 1992 to October 1994,
Mr. Waddington was Vice President and General Manager of the
Integrity Systems Division of Tandem Computers Incorporated,
a computer manufacturer.  From October 1991 to April 1992,
Mr. Waddington was Vice President-Marketing and President of
North American Sales at Concurrent Computer Systems, a
computer manufacturer.  From May 1990 to June 1991, he was
Vice President of Marketing at Sequent Computer Systems, a
computer manufacturer.  Previously, Mr. Waddington held
various senior-level positions at Sperry Computer Systems
and Unisys Corporation, computer manufacturers, in senior
marketing, product development and division general
management positions.  Mr. Waddington has resigned as an
executive officer of the Company effective as of April 12, 1996.

     Paul T. Dacier joined EMC in March 1990 as General
Counsel and became Vice President and General Counsel in
February 1993.  Prior to joining EMC he was Senior Counsel,
Corporate Operations at Apollo Computer Inc., a computer
manufacturer, from January 1987 to January 1990.

     Colin G. Patteson joined EMC in January 1989 as
European Controller.  He has been Chief Financial Officer
and Treasurer of EMC since April 1995.  He was Corporate
Controller from March 1991 to April 1995 and has been a Vice
President of EMC since February 1993.

     William J. Teuber, Jr. joined EMC in August 1995 as
Vice President and Controller.  From 1988 to August 1995,
Mr. Teuber was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P., an
accounting firm.

                        ____________
                              
     Richard J. Egan, Chairman of the Board and a Director, is the
husband of Maureen E. Egan, a Director of the Company. He also is
the brother-in-law of W. Paul Fitzgerald, a Director of the
Company. W. Paul Fitzgerald is the brother of Maureen E. Egan.
John R. Egan, Executive Vice President, Sales and Marketing and a
Director of the Company is the son of Richard J. and Maureen E. Egan.


                        ____________
                              
     The President and Treasurer are elected annually to
serve until the first meeting of the Board of Directors
following the next annual meeting of stockholders and until
their successors are elected and qualified.  The other
executive officers are appointed to serve in such positions
and serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.



**************************************************************
     EMC2, EMC, Symmetrix, Harmonix, Centriplex, ICDA,
Modarray and MOSAIC: 2000 are trademarks of EMC Corporation.
WorldMark is a trademark of NCR Corporation.  IBM, ESCON and
AS/400 are trademarks of IBM Corporation.

<PAGE>

                           PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


     EMC's common stock $0.01 par value (the "Common Stock")
began trading on the over-the-counter market on April 4,
1986 under the NASDAQ symbol EMCS.  On March 22, 1988, the
Company's stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol EMC.

     The following stock splits were effected in the form of
stock dividends in the following amounts and at the
following dates:  a three-for-two stock split effective
November 24, 1992, for stockholders of record on November 9,
1992, a two-for-one stock split effective June 8, 1993, for
stockholders of record on May 24, 1993, and a two-for-one
stock split effective December 10, 1993, for stockholders of
record on November 26, 1993.

     The following table sets forth the range of high and
low prices on the New York Stock Exchange for the past two
years during the fiscal periods shown.

              Fiscal 1995            High         Low

              First Quarter         $23.25      $14.75
              Second Quarter         25.88       16.63
              Third Quarter          27.38       17.75
              Fourth Quarter         19.13       13.13

              Fiscal 1994            High         Low

              First Quarter        $23.00      $15.50
              Second Quarter        21.25       12.63
              Third Quarter         20.13       12.75
              Fourth Quarter        24.00       18.25


     As of March 15, 1996, there were approximately 5,080
holders of record of the Company's Common Stock.

     The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common
Stock.  While subject to periodic review, the current policy
of its Board of Directors is to retain all earnings primarily
to provide funds for the continued growth of the Company.

<PAGE>

ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA


FIVE YEAR SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

EMC Corporation
(amounts in thousands except per share amounts)

Summary of Operations
                        1995        1994      1993      1992      1991

Revenues          $1,921,275  $1,377,492  $782,621  $385,706  $260,337
Operating income     435,779     350,532   180,428    48,575    20,378
Net income           326,845     250,668   127,122    29,508    11,409
Net income per
 weighted average 
 common share 
 (fully diluted) (1) $  1.34     $  1.10   $  0.60   $  0.16   $  0.07
Weighted average 
 common shares 
 (fully diluted) (1) 248,296     234,255   217,225   190,548   166,220

Other Statistics
Working capital   $  959,595   $ 600,341  $516,876  $149,335  $ 77,033
Total assets       1,745,729   1,317,500   829,646   338,780   205,503
Long-term 
 obligations (2)     245,845     286,106   274,029    76,093    16,165
Stockholders'
 equity           $1,140,301   $ 727,641  $419,094  $168,266  $135,009

(1) In addition to common stock equivalents, fully diluted
  earnings per share for 1995, 1994 and 1993 reflect the
  dilutive effects of the Company's 4 1/4% Convertible
  Subordinated Notes due 2001 and fully diluted earnings per
  share for 1995 (through conversion date), 1994, 1993 and 1992
  reflect the dilutive effects of the Company's 6 1/4%
  Convertible Subordinated Debentures.

(2) Excludes current portion of long-term debt.

<PAGE>

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                              
     The following table represents certain statement of
operations information stated as a percentage of revenues.

                                             Fiscal year ended
                              Dec. 30, 1995    Dec. 31, 1994    Jan. 1, 1994
Revenues
     Net sales                        97.8%            97.5%           96.8%
     Service and rental income         2.2              2.5             3.2
                                     100.0            100.0           100.0
Cost and expenses
     Cost of sales and service        52.2             47.9            48.7
     Research and development          8.5              8.6             7.5
     Selling, general and admin.      16.6             18.1            20.8

Operating income                      22.7             25.4            23.0
Investment income and
 interest expense, net                 0.6              0.5               -
Other income/(expense), net            0.2             (0.1)              -
Income before income taxes            23.5             25.8            23.0
Provision for income taxes             6.5              7.6             6.8
Net income                            17.0%            18.2%           16.2%

Revenues

     Total revenues increased by $543,783,000, or 39.5%, in
1995 from 1994 compared to an increase of $594,871,000 or
76% in 1994 from 1993.  Revenues from net sales increased by
$535,150,000 or 39.8%, in 1995 from 1994 levels, while
revenues from service and rental income increased by
$8,633,000, or 25%, in 1995 from 1994.  While the Company
expects revenue to continue to grow in 1996, the Company
does not expect such growth, on a percentage basis, to
continue at the level experienced in 1995 or 1994.

     In 1995, the Company continued to derive the majority
of its revenues from the sale of products featuring the
Company's Integrated Cached Disk Array ("ICDA") technology
which include the Symmetrix series of products for the
mainframe market, the Symmetrix 3000 series of products and
Centriplex series of products for the open systems storage
market and the Harmonix series of IBM compatible disk
products in the AS/400 market.  Revenues from the Symmetrix
series of products in the mainframe market were
$1,425,531,000 in 1995, $1,177,014,000 in 1994 and
$620,178,000 in 1993, representing an increase in 1995 over
1994 of $248,517,000, or 21%. Revenues from the Company"s
products in the open systems storage market were
$200,892,000 in 1995, $24,323,000  in 1994 and $19,081,000
in 1993, representing an increase in 1995 over 1994 of
$176,569,000, or 726%.  Revenues from the Harmonix series of
products were $68,402,000 in 1995, $110,717,000 in 1994 and
$92,672,000 in 1993, representing a decrease in 1995 from
1994 of $42,315,000, or 38%.

     Revenues on sales and service into the markets of North
and South America increased by $357,496,000, or 41%, to
$1,223,183,000 in 1995 from $865,687,000 in 1994. This
increase was primarily due to growth in unit sales of the
Symmetrix series of products in the mainframe storage market
and unit sales of the Company's products in the open systems
storage market.  Revenues into this market increased by
$346,750,000, or 67%, to $865,687,000 in 1994 from
$518,937,000 in 1993.

     Revenues on sales and service into the markets of
Europe, Africa and the Middle East increased by
$116,789,000, or 27%, to $556,313,000 in 1995 from
$439,524,000 in 1994, due primarily to growth in unit sales
of the Symmetrix series of products in the mainframe storage
market.  During 1995, the Company opened sales offices in
South Africa, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland.  Revenues
into this market increased by $213,291,000, or 94%, to
$439,524,000 in 1994 from $226,233,000 in 1993.

     Revenues on sales and service into the markets in the
Asia Pacific region increased by $69,498,000 or 96%, to
$141,779,000 in 1995 from $72,281,000 in 1994, primarily due
to growth in unit sales of the Symmetrix series of products
in the mainframe storage market.  During 1995, the Company
opened sales offices in Korea and Singapore.  Revenues into
this market increased by $34,830,000, or 93%, to $72,281,000
in 1994 from $37,451,000 in 1993.

     Worldwide revenue data presented in the segment
footnote shows revenues on shipments originating from each
area as follows. Revenues on shipments from the North and
South America region were $1,230,223,000 in 1995,
$871,048,000 in 1994 and $526,771,000 in 1993. Revenues on
shipments from the Europe, Middle East and Africa region
were $567,303,000 in 1995, $449,467,000 in 1994 and
$251,363,000 in 1993. Revenues on shipments from the Asia
Pacific region were $123,749,000 in 1995, $56,977,000 in
1994 and $4,487,000 in 1993.

     Historically, the Company has competed with OEM
manufacturers and other independent suppliers on the basis
of  product performance, quality and price.  The Company
expects that there will be performance and pricing pressures
with respect to the sale of its products throughout 1996.
See also "Cost of Sales and Service".

     The Company purchases certain components and products
from suppliers who the Company believes are currently the
only suppliers of those components or products that meet the
Company's requirements.  Among the most important components
that the Company uses are high density memory components
("DRAMs") and 5 1/4" and 3 1/2" disk drives, which the
Company purchases from a small number of qualified
suppliers.  A failure by any supplier of high density DRAMs
or disk drives to meet the Company's requirements for an
extended period of time could have a material adverse effect
on the Company.  From time to time, because of high industry
demand and/or the inability of certain vendors to
consistently meet on a timely basis the Company's component
quality standards, the Company experienced delays in
deliveries of high density DRAMs and disk drives needed to
satisfy orders for ICDA products.  The Company is currently
working with such vendors to correct these problems and is
also seeking alternative sources of supply.  If shortages
and quality problems were to intensify, the Company could
lose some time-sensitive customer orders which could
adversely affect quarterly revenues and earnings.

Cost of Sales and Service

     As a percentage of revenues, cost of sales and service
amounted to 52.2% in 1995, 47.9% in 1994 and 48.7% in 1993.
Demand for the Company's products has continued in 1995, but
competitive pricing pressures in the mainframe storage
market during 1995 were greater than in prior years and
adversely affected the margin percent in 1995 over 1994 and
1993.  Also in 1995, cost of goods sold included one-time
charges of approximately $31,000,000, net of tax, relating
to end-of-life products and excess inventory.  The Company
believes that pricing pressures are likely to continue due
to competitive product offerings.

Research and Development

     Research and development ("R&D") expenses were
$162,611,000, $117,922,000 and $58,977,000 in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively.  As a percentage of revenue, R&D
expenses were 8.5%, 8.6% and 7.5% of revenues in 1995, 1994
and 1993, respectively. Dollar increases in R&D spending in
1995 over 1994 reflect costs to develop new products for the
open systems storage market, the cost of additional
technical staff and depreciation expenses associated with
capital equipment acquired to facilitate development. The
Company expects to continue to spend substantial amounts for
R&D in 1996.

Selling, General and Administrative

     Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses
increased by $71,005,000, or 28.5%, in 1995, $86,543,000, or
53% in 1994 and $66,200,000, or 69% in 1993. As a percentage
of revenues, SG&A expenses were 16.7%, 18.1% and 20.8% in
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The dollar increase in
1995 over 1994 is due primarily to costs associated with
additional sales and support personnel and their related
overhead costs, both domestically and internationally, in
connection with the Company's increased revenue levels and
the Company's initiative to expand its open systems storage
group, international direct selling offices and OEM
programs.  Expenses in 1995 also include approximately
$8,000,000 of costs related to the acquisition of McDATA.
SG&A expenses are expected to increase in dollar terms
during 1996.

Investment Income and Interest Expense

     Investment income increased to $23,620,000 in 1995 from
$21,619,000 in 1994 and $7,988,000 in 1993.  Interest income
was earned from investments in cash equivalents and long-
term investments and, to a lesser extent, from sales-type
leases of the Company's products.  Investment income
increased in 1995 over 1994 primarily due to slightly higher
average cash and investment balances in 1995 over 1994.
Investment income increased in 1994 over 1993 due to higher
average cash and investment balances caused primarily by the
availability of funds from the issuance of the 4 1/4%
Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2001 (the "Notes") in
December 1993 and January 1994.

     Interest expense decreased to $12,857,000 in 1995, from
$15,311,000 in 1994 and $6,043,000 in 1993. The decrease in
1995 from 1994 is primarily due to conversions of the 6 1/4%
Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2002 (the
"Debentures") in March 1995.

Provision for Taxes

     The provision for income taxes was $123,976,000 in
1995, $104,716,000 in 1994 and $52,534,000 in 1993,
respectively, which resulted in effective tax rates of
27.5%, 29.5% and 29.2% in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
The decrease in the effective tax rate in 1995 from 1994 is
mainly attributable to the realization of tax benefits
associated with the Company's tax strategies and the
utilization of tax credits. The increased rate in 1994 from
1993 is mainly attributable to a decrease in the utilization
of tax credits.

     See Note C of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements for a detailed analysis of the Company's
effective tax rates for 1995, 1994 and 1993.

Cash Flows

     In 1995 cash and cash equivalents increased by
$139,122,000. Cash provided by operating activities was
$172,378,000 as a result of increased net income which was
partially offset by increased receivable and inventory
balances. Cash used by investing activities was $41,806,000
primarily caused by additions to property, plant and
equipment of $92,200,000, offset by net maturities of long-
term investments of $50,355,000.  Cash provided by financing
activities of $8,833,000 was primarily from issuances of
common stock of $19,438,000 pursuant to stock option
exercises and stock purchase plan activity and was partially
offset by payments of long-term obligations of $10,735,000.

Financial Position

     At the end of the fiscal years 1995, 1994 and 1993,
cash and cash equivalents were $379,628,000, $240,506,000
and $345,300,000, respectively.  In 1995, working capital
increased by $359,254,000 to $959,595,000 from $600,341,000.
In 1994, working capital increased by $83,465,000 to
$600,341,000 from $516,876,000.

     It is typical for companies in the computer industry to
require significant amounts of working capital to finance
their business.  The Company believes that its working
capital requirements are in accordance with industry
practices.  In 1995, the Company financed its working
capital requirements from internally generated funds and
existing cash and investments.  As the Company's business
expands, the Company's working capital is expected to
increase.

     As of January 31, 1996, the Company had available for
use its credit lines of $72,000,000.  The Company may elect
to borrow at any time from these credit lines.  Based on its
current operating and capital expenditure forecasts, the
Company believes funds currently available, funds generated
from operations and its available lines of credit will be
adequate to finance its operations.

     In December 1995, the Company issued 13,567,112 shares
of EMC common stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock") in
the acquisition of McDATA, a leader in data  network
switching solutions, in a transaction which the Company has
accounted for as a pooling of interests.

     The Company will adopt Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No.121 "Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be
Disposed Of" in 1996.  This Statement requires recognition
of impairment losses pertaining to long-term assets based
upon the excess of the carrying amount of such assets over
their fair values.  The Company believes that adoption will
not have a material effect on its financial statements.

     The Company will adopt Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" in 1996.  This Statement defines a fair value-
based method of accounting for employee stock options.  The
compensation expense arising from this method of accounting
can be reflected in the financial statements or
alternatively, the pro forma net income and earnings per
share effect of the fair value-based accounting can be
disclosed in the financial statement footnotes.  The Company
expects to adopt the footnote disclosure alternative.

     To date, inflation has not had a material impact on the
Company's financial results.

<PAGE>


              REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of EMC
Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets and the financial statement schedule of
EMC Corporation as of December 30, 1995 and December 31,
1994, and the related consolidated statements of income,
cash flows and stockholders' equity and the financial
statement schedule for each of the three years in the
period ended December 30, 1995.  These financial
statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and the financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards.  Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also
includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to
above present fairly, in all material respects, the
consolidated financial position of EMC Corporation as of
December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December
30, 1995 in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information required to be included therein.




                              COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.


Boston, Massachusetts
January 25, 1996

<PAGE>

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                       EMC CORPORATION
                 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
         (amounts in thousands except share amounts)
                              
                              
                                                   Dec. 30,   Dec. 31,
ASSETS                                             1995       1994
Current assets:
   Cash and cash equivalents                       $379,628   $240,506
   Trade and notes receivable less allowance for doubtful
    accounts of $7,062 and $6,272, respectively     550,473    361,191
   Inventories                                      330,160    251,096
   Deferred income taxes                             44,061     40,754
   Other assets                                      14,633      8,258
Total current assets                              1,318,955    901,805

Long-term investments                               125,276    175,631
Notes receivable, net                                26,497     38,945
Property, plant and equipment, net                  218,901    173,016
Deferred income taxes                                 9,200      4,473
Other assets, net                                    46,900     23,630
      Total assets                               $1,745,729 $1,317,500

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
   Current portion of long-term obligations            $915     $9,502
   Accounts payable                                 111,721    122,264
   Accrued expenses                                 130,596    106,107
   Income taxes payable                             107,717     55,521
   Deferred revenue                                   8,411      8,070
Total current liabilities                           359,360    301,464

Deferred revenue                                        223      2,289
Long-term obligations:
  4 1/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2001    229,598    229,598
  6 1/4% convertible subordinated debentures due 2002    --     39,536
  Notes payable and capital lease obligations        16,247     16,972
Total liabilities                                   605,428    589,859

Stockholders' equity:
Series Preferred Stock, par value $.01; 
 authorized 25,000,000 shares                           ---        ---
Common Stock, par value $.01; authorized 500,000,000
 shares; issued 232,517,845 and 201,738,042, 
 in 1995 and 1994, respectively                       2,325      2,017
Additional paid-in capital                          350,989    281,625
Deferred compensation                                (2,140)    (2,607)
Retained earnings  (see Footnote B)                 786,599    443,713
Cumulative translation adjustment                     3,766      3,716
Treasury stock, at cost, 2,646,453 and 
 2,627,467 shares, in 1995 and 1994,
 respectively                                        (1,238)     (823)
      Total stockholders' equity                  1,140,301    727,641

      Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $1,745,729 $1,317,500


      The accompanying notes are an integral part of the 
              consolidated financial statements.
  <PAGE>                            
                              
  ITEM 8 continued....
                              
                       EMC CORPORATION
              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
       (amounts in thousands except per share amounts)
                              
                              
                                            Year Ended

                               Dec. 30,       Dec. 31,      Jan. 1,
                               1995           1994          1994

Revenues:
  Net sales                   $1,878,215    $1,343,065     $757,793
  Service and rental              43,060        34,427       24,828

                               1,921,275     1,377,492      782,621
Costs and expenses:
  Cost of sales and service    1,002,876       660,034      380,755
  Research and development       162,611       117,922       58,977
  Selling, general and 
     administrative              320,009       249,004      162,461

Operating income                 435,779       350,532      180,428

Investment income                 23,620        21,619        7,988
Interest expense                 (12,857)      (15,311)      (6,043)
Other income/(expense), net        4,279        (1,456)      (2,717)

Income before taxes              450,821       355,384      179,656
Income tax provision             123,976       104,716       52,534

Net income                      $326,845      $250,668     $127,122

Net income per weighted 
 average share, primary            $1.36         $1.18        $0.65

Net income per weighted 
 average share, fully diluted      $1.34         $1.10        $0.60


     The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
             consolidated financial statements.
                              
<PAGE>
ITEM 8 continued....
                       EMC CORPORATION
            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                   (amounts in thousands)
                              
                                                     For the Year Ended
                                                Dec. 30,   Dec. 31,    Jan. 1,
                                                   1995       1994       1994
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income                                     $326,845   $250,668  $127,122
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
   provided/(used) by operating activities:
     Depreciation and amortization                 53,617     32,728    21,741
     Deferred income taxes                         (6,587)   (18,267)  (21,172)
     Net loss on disposal of property and equipment   635        262     2,324
     Tax benefit from stock options exercised      11,165     26,698     8,776
     Changes in assets and liabilities:
      Trade and notes receivable                 (156,719)  (221,708)  (73,252)
      Inventories                                 (74,351)  (133,159)  (60,937)
      Other assets                                (35,984)   (19,526)    4,381
      Accounts payable                            (16,061)    78,698    16,500
      Accrued expenses                             22,432     46,448    28,893
      Income taxes payable                         49,275     34,629     3,520
      Deferred revenue                             (1,889)       (65)   (1,100)
        Net cash provided by operating activities 172,378     77,406    56,796

Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property, plant and equipment      (92,200)  (108,968)  (51,303)
  Proceeds from sales of property and equipment        39        445       574
  Net maturity/(purchase) of long-term investments 50,355   (125,239)  (29,100)

        Net cash used by investing activities     (41,806)  (233,762)  (79,829)

Cash flows from financing activities:
  Issuance of common stock                         19,438      9,596   112,451
  Purchase of treasury stock                         (415)      (320)      ---
  Issuance of 4 1/4% convertible subordinated notes
    due 2001, net of issuance costs                   ---     29,350   194,987
  Payment of long-term and short-term obligations (10,735)    (1,272)   (2,430)
  Issuance of long-term and short-term obligations    545     11,715       ---

        Net cash provided by financing activities   8,833     49,069   305,008

Effect of exchange rate changes on cash              (283)     2,493     1,222

Net increase/(decrease) in 
  cash and cash equivalents                       139,405   (107,287)  281,975
Cash and cash equivalents 
  at beginning of period                          240,506    345,300    62,103
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period       $379,628   $240,506  $345,300

Non-cash activity - conversions of debentures      39,535     19,724       740

                              
     The accompanying notes are an integral part of the
             consolidated financial statements.
<PAGE>                              
 
<TABLE>
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
EMC Corporation
(amounts in thousands except share amounts)
<CAPTION>                           
                         For the three years ended December 30, 1995
                                   Addi-                      Cumu-
                  Common Stock     tional   Deferred          lative   Treasury      Total
                            Par    Paid-in  Compen-  Retained Transl.  Stock         Stockholders'    
               Shares       Value  Capital  sation   Earnings Adj.     Shares  Cost  Equity

<S>             <C>          <C>    <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>   <C>       <C>   <C>                
Balance 
Jan. 2, 1993    166,505,268  1,665  105,873  (4,545)   65,923  (147) 2,607,996 (503) 168,266
Exercise of 
stock options     5,839,240     58   11,424     ---       ---   ---        ---  ---   11,482
Tax benefit from 
disqualifying
disposition of 
stock options           ---   ---    8,776      ---       ---   ---        ---  ---    8,776
Issuance of common 
stock pursuant to 
stock offering   17,350,000   174   99,857      ---       ---   ---        ---  ---  100,031
Issuance of common 
stock pursuant to
bond conversions    241,612     2      738      ---       ---   ---        ---  ---      740
Amortization of 
deferred compensation   ---   ---      ---      993       ---   ---        ---  ---      993
Cumulative translation 
adjustment              ---   ---      ---      ---       --- 1,684        ---  ---    1,684
Net income              ---   ---      ---      ---   127,122   ---        ---  ---  127,122

Balance 
Jan. 1, 1994    189,936,120 1,899  226,668   (3,552)  193,045 1,537  2,607,996 (503) 419,094
Exercise of 
stock options     5,361,342    54   8,548       ---       ---   ---        ---  ---    8,602
Tax benefit from 
disqualifying disposition 
of stock options and 
nonqualifying stock
options exercised       ---   ---  26,698       ---       ---   ---        ---  ---   26,698
Issuance of stock 
options                 ---   ---      49       (49)      ---   ---        ---  ---      ---
Issuance of common 
stock pursuant to
bond and note 
conversions       6,440,580    64  19,662       ---       ---   ---        ---  ---   19,726
Amortization of deferred
compensation            ---   ---     ---       994       ---   ---        ---  ---      994
Purchase of 
treasury stock          ---   ---     ---       ---       ---   ---     19,471 (320)   (320)
Cumulative translation 
adjustment              ---   ---     ---       ---       --- 2,179        ---  ---    2,179
Net income              ---   ---     ---       ---   250,668   ---        ---  ---  250,668

Balance 
Dec. 31, 1994  201,738,042  2,017 281,625    (2,607)  443,713 3,716  2,627,467 (823) 727,641
Pooling of interests 
with McDATA 
Corporation     13,567,112    136   1,794       ---    16,041   ---        ---  ---   17,971
Balance 
as restated    215,305,154  2,153 283,419    (2,607)  459,754 3,716  2,627,467 (823) 745,612
Exercise of stock 
options          4,303,305     43  16,454       ---       ---   ---        ---  ---   16,497
Tax benefit from 
disqualifying disposition
of stock options and 
nonqualifying stock
options exercised      ---    ---  11,165       ---       ---   ---        ---  ---   11,165 
Issuance of stock 
options                ---    ---     545      (545)      ---   ---        ---  ---      ---
Issuance of common 
stock pursuant     
to bond 
conversions     12,909,386    129  39,406       ---       ---   ---        ---  ---   39,535
Amortization of 
deferred compensation  ---    ---     ---     1,012       ---   ---        ---  ---    1,012
Purchase of 
treasury stock         ---    ---     ---       ---       ---   ---     18,986 (415)   (415)
Cumulative translation 
adjustment             ---    ---     ---       ---       ---    50        ---  ---       50
Net income             ---    ---     ---       ---   326,845   ---        ---  ---  326,845

Balance 
Dec. 30, 1995  232,517,845  2,325 350,989    (2,140)  786,599 3,766  2,646,453 (1,238)1,140,301
</TABLE>
 
      The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated 
                          financial statements.

<PAGE>
                              
ITEM 8 continued. . . .

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
EMC Corporation

A.  Company

    EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries ("EMC" or the
    "Company") design, manufacture, market and support a
    wide range of storage-related hardware, software and
    service products for the mainframe, open systems, IBM
    AS/400 and network computer storage markets worldwide.
    These products are sold as storage solutions for
    customers utilizing a variety of computer system
    platforms including, but not limited to, International
    Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") and IBM-
    compatible mainframe, Unisys Corporation ("Unisys"),
    Compagnie des Machines Bull S.A. ("Bull"), Hewlett-
    Packard Company ("HP"), NCR Corporation ("NCR") and
    other open systems platforms.

B. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

    Basis of Presentation

    Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
    conform with the 1995  presentation.

    Principles of Consolidation

    The consolidated financial statements include the
    accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries.  All
    significant intercompany transactions and balances have
    been eliminated.

    Acquisitions

    In December 1995, EMC exchanged 13,567,112 shares of
    EMC common stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock")
    for all of the outstanding stock and stock options
    exercisable as of the closing date of McDATA
    Corporation ("McDATA"), a leader in data network
    switching solutions. The business combination was
    accounted for as a pooling of interests. The
    accompanying financial statements for periods prior to
    1995 do not include the amounts for this acquisition as
    they were deemed to be immaterial.  Only 1995 financial
    information has been restated as if the transaction had
    occurred as of January 1, 1995.

    Separate company results for 1995 before the
    combinations were consummated were:
   
                                Period ended December 6, 1995
                                Revenues           Net Income
   
    EMC                         $1,402,059,000     $197,303,000
    McDATA                         148,253,000       41,748,000 
    Total                       $1,550,312,000     $239,051,000
   
    Also during 1995, the Company acquired all of the
    outstanding stock of Icon International, Inc. (now EMC
    Computer Systems California, Inc.) and purchased
    certain assets from its distributors in South Africa
    and Sweden. These transactions resulted in goodwill of
    $9,215,000 which is being amortized over five years and
    is included in other assets, non-current at December
    30, 1995, net of amortization of $1,231,000.
   
    In January 1994, the Company formed a joint venture,
    EMC Japan K.K. ("EMC Japan"), with a Japanese
    distributor in which the Company's interest was 60%.
    Subsequently, the Company purchased an additional 35%
    interest in EMC Japan resulting in goodwill of
    $8,971,000 which is included in other assets, non-
    current at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, net
    of amortization of $1,955,000 and $150,000,
    respectively, and is being amortized over five years.
   
    Also in 1994, the Company acquired a 93% interest in
    Copernique S.A. ("Copernique") which specializes in
    high performance data management and hardware and
    software systems, and the Company acquired certain
    assets of Array Technology Corporation ("Array") which
    specialized in RAID ("Redundant Arrays of Independent
    Disks") technology.  The Company acquired the remaining
    7% interest in Copernique in March 1995.  Included in
    the Array assets were patents of $7,272,000 which are
    being amortized over their estimated useful life of
    five years, and are included in other assets, non-
    current at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994 net
    of amortization of $2,666,000 and $1,212,000,
    respectively.
    
    Pro forma presentations have not been included as the
    acquisitions were not material to the results of
    operations of the Company.
   
    In August 1993, EMC exchanged 9,443,996 shares of
    Common Stock for all the outstanding stock and stock
    options of Epoch Systems, Inc. ("Epoch") and Magna
    Computer Corp. ("Magna") in business combinations which
    were accounted for as poolings of interests.  All
    financial information has been restated as if the
    transactions occurred as of the first period presented.
    Epoch is in the business of high performance
    client/server data management software and Magna was in
    the business of IBM compatible AS/400 tape products.

    Revenue Recognition

    The Company recognizes revenue from sales when products
    are shipped provided there are no remaining significant
    vendor obligations and the resulting receivable is
    deemed collectible by management.  Revenue from rentals
    is recorded over the life of the lease.  Revenue from
    sales-type leases is recognized at the net present
    value of expected future payments, and the resulting
    discount is accreted to investment income over the
    collection period.  Revenue from service contracts is
    recognized over the life of the contracts.

    Foreign Currency Translation
   
    The local currency is the functional currency of sales
    operations in Canada, Europe, South Africa and the Asia
    Pacific region (except Hong Kong).  Assets and
    liabilities of these operations are translated into
    U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance
    sheet date and income and expense items are translated
    at average rates for the period.  The Company's
    operations in Ireland, Israel and Hong Kong are
    generally dependent on the U.S. dollar. Assets and
    liabilities of these operations are translated into
    U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance
    sheet date except for inventories and property, plant
    and equipment which are translated at historical
    exchange rates.  Consolidated transaction results
    included in other income/(expense), net were gains of
    $1,667,000 in 1995, and losses of $1,072,000 in 1994
    and $1,838,000 in 1993.  Accumulated net translation
    adjustments included in stockholders' equity were
    $3,766,000 in 1995 and $3,716,000 in 1994.
   
    Cash, Cash Equivalents
   
    Cash and cash equivalents include $168,614,000 and $134,954,000 
    of cash equivalents at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994,
    respectively.  All highly liquid investments which have
    a maturity when acquired of ninety days or less are
    considered cash equivalents.  These investments are
    stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market.

    Long-Term Investments

    The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards No. 115 ("SFAS 115"), "Accounting for Certain
    Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" in 1994.
    The adoption of SFAS 115 had no cumulative effect on
    net income.

    Long-term investments at amortized cost, consisting
    primarily of intermediate term debt instruments,
    amounted to $125,276,000 and $175,631,000 in 1995 and
    1994, with fair values of $126,285,000 and
    $173,245,000, respectively.  The Company classifies its
    long-term investments as held to maturity.  The 1995
    balances consisted of:
                                    Amortized    Aggregate
                                   Cost Basis   Fair Value
    Corporate debt securities    $ 90,674,000  $ 91,557,000
    U.S. Government and agencies   24,602,000    24,653,000
    Foreign debt securities        10,000,000    10,075,000
    Total                        $125,276,000  $126,285,000

    The 1994 balances consisted of:
                                   Amortized      Aggregate
                                  Cost Basis     Fair Value
    Corporate                   $113,866,000   $112,649,000
    Foreign                       49,950,000     49,667,000
    U.S. Government               11,815,000     10,929,000
    Total                       $175,631,000   $173,245,000

    The net unrealized gain of $1,009,000 at December 30, 1995 
    consisted of gross unrealized gains of $1,372,000 and gross 
    unrealized losses of $363,000.  The contractual maturities of 
    debt securities held at December 30, 1995 are as follows:

                                   Amortized      Aggregate
                                        Cost     Fair Value
                                       Basis
    
    Due within one year         $        ---   $        ---
    Due after one year                
    through five years           109,424,000    110,412,000
    Due after five years                    
    through ten years             14,102,000     14,027,000
    Due after ten years            1,750,000      1,846,000
                 Total          $125,276,000   $126,285,000

    The net unrealized loss of $2,386,000 at December 31, 1994 consisted 
    of gross unrealized gains of $444,000 and gross unrealized losses of 
    $2,830,000.  The contractual maturities of debt securities held at 
    December 31, 1994 are as follows:

                                  Amortized     Aggregate
                                 Cost Basis    Fair Value

    Due within one year        $ 45,014,000  $ 44,080,000
    Due after one year                         
    through five years          128,879,000   127,409,000
    Due after ten years           1,738,000     1,756,000
                 Total         $175,631,000  $173,245,000

    Investment income consists principally of interest and
    dividend income, including interest on notes receivable
    from sales-type leases.


    Statement of Cash Flows Supplemental Information

                           December 30,    December 31,   January 1,
                              1995            1994          1994
    Cash paid during the 
    years ended for:

    Income taxes            $70,389,000   $76,539,000   $59,739,000
    Interest                 12,965,000    10,854,000     6,486,000


   Inventories

   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first in,
   first out) or market.

   Property, Plant and Equipment

    Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost.
    Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over
    the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows:

             Furniture and fixtures  7 years
             Equipment               3-7 years
             Vehicles                5 years
             Improvements            5 years
             Buildings               25-31 1/2 years

    Customer service spare parts inventory is included in
    equipment and depreciated over three years.

    When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and
    accumulated depreciation thereon are removed from the
    accounts and the related gains or losses are included
    in operations.

    Warranty and Research and Development

    The Company accounts for warranty expense on an accrual
    basis.  Research and development costs are expensed as
    incurred, except for the costs of computer software to
    be sold, leased or otherwise marketed incurred after
    technological feasibility has been established and
    prior to product release for production.  In 1995, the
    Company capitalized approximately $5,000,000 of
    software development costs, which amount is  included
    in other assets, non-current at December 30, 1995.
    These expenses are being amortized on a straight-line
    basis over a twenty-four month period.  In prior years,
    costs qualifying for capitalization were not material.
    The current year reflects an increased level of
    investment in software development activities over
    prior years.

    Income Taxes

    Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for
    the expected future tax consequences of events that have
    been included in the financial statements or tax
    returns.  Under this method, deferred tax liabilities
    and assets are determined based on the difference
    between the financial statement and tax bases of assets
    and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for
    the year in which the differences are expected to
    reverse (see Note C).

    Tax credits are generally recognized as reductions of
    income tax provisions in the year in which the credits
    arise.  Since 1989, the Company has not provided for
    U.S. income tax liability on earnings of its foreign
    subsidiaries, except for Puerto Rico.  These earnings
    of non-U.S. subsidiaries, which reflect full provision
    for non-U.S. income taxes, are indefinitely reinvested
    in non-U.S. operations or will be remitted
    substantially free of additional tax.  Accordingly, no
    material provision has been made for taxes that might
    be payable upon remittance of such non-U.S. earnings.
    The Company is currently undergoing an examination of
    its 1992, 1993 and 1994 tax returns by the Internal
    Revenue Service.

    Net Income Per Share
 
    Net income per share was computed on the basis of
    weighted average common and dilutive common equivalent
    shares outstanding.  Primary and fully diluted weighted
    average shares outstanding and earnings used in per
    share computations for 1995, 1994 and 1993 reflect the
    dilutive effects of the Company's 4 1/4% Convertible
    Subordinated Notes due 2001 (the "Notes").  Fully
    diluted weighted average shares outstanding and
    earnings used in per share computations for 1995, 1994
    and 1993 reflect the dilutive effects of the Company's
    6 1/4% convertible subordinated debentures due 2002
    (the "Debentures").  Net income for computation of
    earnings per share includes an add back of $6,224,000,
    $7,620,000 and $2,496,000 for fully diluted and
    $5,855,000, $5,838,000 and $224,000 for primary, in
    1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, representing
    interest expense, net of its tax effect.  Primary
    weighted average shares were 245,386,209, 218,045,666
    and 196,486,160 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.
    Fully diluted weighted average shares were 248,296,143,
    234,254,640 and 217,224,726 in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
    respectively.  These calculations of weighted average
    shares have been restated to reflect all stock splits
    to date (see Note J).

C. Income Taxes

   Provision for income taxes consists of:

                               1995          1994         1993
   Federal and State
    Current               $123,927,000  $108,459,000  $69,176,000
    Deferred                (5,867,000)  (18,421,000) (21,830,000)
                           118,060,000    90,038,000   47,346,000
   Foreign
    Current                  6,636,000    14,524,000    4,530,000
    Deferred                  (720,000)      154,000      658,000
                             5,916,000    14,678,000    5,188,000

   Total provision for 
     income taxes         $123,976,000  $104,716,000  $52,534,000

    At December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, net
    undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
    approximated $388,411,000 and $220,598,000,
    respectively.  Income before income taxes for foreign
    operations amounted to approximately $172,933,000 in
    1995, $152,363,000 in 1994 and $49,392,000 in 1993.
    The components of the deferred tax provision are:

                                 1995          1994          1993

   Sales Reserve              $2,563,000  $ (3,418,000) $ (7,385,000)
   Warranty Reserves            (723,000)   (1,262,000)   (1,379,000)
   Inventory Reserves         (4,612,000)  (10,119,000)   (6,427,000)
   Puerto Rico Tollgate Tax    6,205,000     1,025,000    (5,772,000)
   Deferred Revenue              594,000       590,000       531,000
   Depreciation                 (331,000)   (2,444,000)     (383,000)
   Other Reserves             (1,009,000)   (1,386,000)   (2,073,000)
   Other Assets               (4,943,000)     (313,000)    1,716,000
   Domestic NOL Carryforward   2,301,000      (546,000)          ---
   Foreign NOL Carryforward     (735,000)   (1,721,000)    3,872,000
   R&D Credit Carryforward           ---         8,000           ---
   Valuation Reserve          (5,897,000)    1,319,000    (3,872,000)
                              
   Total Deferred Provision  $(6,587,000) $(18,267,000) $(21,172,000)

   A reconciliation of the Company's income tax provision
   to the statutory federal tax rate is as follows:

                                            1995      1994        1993

   Statutory federal tax rate               35.0%     35.0%       35.0%
   State taxes, net of federal tax benefits  3.6       2.6         3.1
   Puerto Rico tax benefits                  ---       (.6)        (.9)
   Ireland tax benefits                     (8.5)     (6.6)       (6.4)
   Net operating losses not benefited        ---        .6          .6
   Tax credits                              (1.4)      (.7)       (1.3)
   Utilization of foreign net operating 
    loss carryforwards                       (.9)      (.9)        (.7)
   Foreign Sales Corporation tax benefits    (.3)      (.1)        ---
   Other                                     ---        .2         (.2)
                                            27.5%     29.5%       29.2%

   The Company's Puerto Rico operation enjoyed a ten year
   exemption which expired in 1995, on up to 90% of EMC
   Caribe's income as a result of the Company's Grant of
   Industrial Tax Exemption issued by the Commonwealth of
   Puerto Rico.  EMC Caribe ceased manufacturing operations
   in February 1994.  The Company's manufacturing facility
   in Ireland incurs a 10% tax rate on income from
   manufacturing operations until the year 2000.

    The components of the current and non-current deferred
    tax assets and liabilities as of December 30, 1995 and
    December 31, 1994 were as follows:

      Current Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)    1995          1994

      Sales Reserve                        $ 10,499,000 $  13,062,000
      Warranty Reserve                        4,511,000     3,788,000
      Inventory Reserve                      23,069,000    18,457,000
      Other Reserves                          5,793,000     5,107,000
      Other Assets                            8,273,000     2,219,000
      Puerto Rico Tollgate Tax               (8,084,000)   (1,879,000)
      Total Current Deferred Tax 
        Assets/(Liabilities)                $44,061,000  $ 40,754,000

      Non-Current Deferred Tax Assets/(Liabilities)

      Deferred Revenue                          604,000     1,198,000
      Other Reserves                            815,000       492,000
      Other Assets                              694,000       358,000
      Depreciation                            2,756,000     2,425,000
      Domestic NOL Carryforward               3,173,000     5,474,000
      Foreign NOL Carryforward                6,811,000     6,076,000
      Research and Development Credit 
       Carryforward                           1,144,000     1,144,000
      Valuation Reserve                      (6,797,000)  (12,694,000)
      Total Non-Current Deferred 
       Tax Assets/(Liabilities)              $9,200,000    $4,473,000


    In 1994, due to the uncertainty surrounding the
    realization of certain favorable tax attributes in
    future returns, the Company placed a valuation reserve
    against otherwise recognizable deferred tax assets.  In
    1995, the valuation reserve has been reduced because
    the realization of some of these tax attributes is more
    likely than not.  The valuation reserve has also
    decreased due to the utilization of some of the foreign
    and domestic net operating losses.

    The Company has net operating loss carryforwards as of
    December 30, 1995 which are summarized as follows:
                                            Carryforward period
                     Approximate value      during which losses
        Country      in U.S. dollars        will expire

        France           $17,259,000        5 years/1996 - 1999
        Hong Kong             82,000        Indefinite
        Japan                837,000        5 years/1999 - 2000
        United States      7,943,000        15 Years/2002 - 2008


     The U.S. losses relate to the pre-acquisition losses of Epoch and 
     Magna. The losses in France relate to Copernique, a wholly-owned 
     subsidiary of EMC; approximately $11,296,000 are remaining 
     pre-acquisition losses and $5,963,000 are losses generated in 1994.


D. Inventory

                               Dec. 30, 1995   Dec. 31, 1994
     Inventories consist of:

     Purchased parts             $22,870,000      $8,946,000
     Work-in-process             150,216,000     133,116,000
     Finished goods              157,074,000     109,034,000
                                $330,160,000    $251,096,000

     The Company wrote off approximately $31,000,000, net of
     tax, of inventory in the fourth quarter of 1995,
     primarily relating to end-of-life products, excess
     inventory and other inventory-related adjustments.

E. Notes Receivable

    Notes receivable are primarily from sales-type leases
    of equipment.  The payment schedule for such notes at
    December 30, 1995 is as follows:

       1996                                  $28,717,000
       1997                                   13,847,000
       1998                                   10,204,000
       1999                                    2,755,000
       2000                                    1,006,000
       Face value                             56,529,000
       Less amounts representing interest      5,889,000
       Present value                          50,640,000
       Less allowance for doubtful accounts      216,000
                                              50,424,000
       Current portion                        23,927,000
       Long-term portion                     $26,497,000


F. Property, Plant and Equipment

                                    Dec. 30, 1995      Dec. 31, 1994
    Property, plant and equipment 
    consist of:
    
    Furniture and fixtures            $ 8,950,000       $  5,989,000
    Equipment                         260,882,000        190,160,000
    Vehicles                              873,000          1,010,000
    Buildings and improvements         53,748,000         44,664,000
    Land                                1,870,000          1,870,000
    Construction in progress           20,273,000          9,712,000
                                      346,596,000        253,405,000
    Accumulated depreciation         (127,695,000)       (80,389,000)
                                     $218,901,000       $173,016,000

    The Company will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 
    No. 121 "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and 
    for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" in 1996.  This Statement
    requires recognition of impairment losses pertaining to
    long-term assets based upon the excess of the carrying
    amount of such assets over their fair values.  The
    Company believes that adoption will not have a material
    effect on its financial statements.

G. Accrued Expenses

                            Dec. 30, 1995   Dec. 31, 1994
   Accrued expenses consist of:   

   Salaries and benefits      $67,007,000    $54,159,000
   Warranty                    17,798,000     15,535,000
   Other                       45,791,000     36,413,000
                             $130,596,000   $106,107,000

H. Employee Compensation Plans

    In 1983, the Company initiated a profit-sharing plan
    (the "1983 Plan") for employees, whose eligibility to
    participate is based on certain service requirements.
    Contributions are made at the discretion of the Board
    of Directors.

    Other than matching contributions to the 401(k) plans,
    as described below, no profit-sharing contributions
    were made in 1995, 1994 or 1993.

    In July 1985, the Company supplemented the 1983 Plan
    with a deferred compensation program for certain
    employees.  Under the program, which is qualified under
    Section 401(k) of federal tax laws, the Company has
    provided a matching contribution, as described below.

    Effective January 1, 1993, the Company introduced a new
    matching formula for the 1983 Plan.  The Company
    intends, at the end of each calendar quarter, to make a
    contribution that matches 100% of the employee's
    contribution up to a maximum of 2% of the employee's
    quarterly compensation.  Additionally, provided that
    certain quarterly profit goals are attained, the
    Company in succeeding quarters, will provide an
    additional matching contribution of 1% of the
    employee's quarterly compensation up to a maximum
    quarterly matching contribution not to exceed 5% of
    compensation.  However, the Company's matching
    contribution per participant has a quarterly limit of
    $500.  The Company's contribution amounted to
    approximately $3,124,000 in 1995, $2,277,000 in 1994
    and $1,463,000 in 1993, pursuant to the previous formula.

    In 1994, the Epoch and Magna retirement savings plans
    were merged into the 1983 Plan.

    The Company does not offer a worldwide postretirement
    or postemployment benefit plan other than plans that
    exist in certain foreign subsidiaries as required by law.

    McDATA has a profit sharing plan to which the
    contribution was $728,000 in 1995.

    
I.  Lease Commitments, Financial Instruments and Long-Term Obligations

    Operating Lease Commitments

    The Company leases office and warehouse facilities under 
    various operating leases.  Facilities rent expense amounted to 
    $11,095,000, $10,277,000, and $6,050,000 in 1995, 1994 and 1993, 
    respectively.  The Company's commitments under its operating leases 
    are as follows:

                                            Operating
    Fiscal Year                                Leases

    1996                                  $30,218,000
    1997                                   17,255,000
    1998                                    9,979,000
    1999                                    2,520,000
    2000                                      755,000
    Thereafter                                393,000

    Total minimum lease payments          $61,120,000


    Current Obligations and Lines of Credit
 
    EMC has two lines of credit providing a maximum of
    $50,000,000 and $15,000,000, respectively, at LIBOR
    plus 45 basis points and 62.5 basis points, respectively.  
    McDATA has a line of credit providing a maximum of $7,000,000.  
    At December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, there were no 
    borrowings outstanding against these credit lines.  The Company
    must maintain certain minimum financial ratios including a minimum
    level of working capital and tangible net worth under
    each line of credit.  At December 31, 1994, $8,427,000
    was borrowed against the Company's overdraft facility at 6.4%.

    Financial Instruments

    In December 1993, the Company issued $200,000,000 of
    Notes. In January 1994, the Company issued an
    additional $29,600,000 of Notes in accordance with
    overallotment provisions of the offering.  The Notes
    are generally convertible into shares of Common Stock
    of the Company at a conversion price of $19.84 per
    share, subject to adjustment in certain events. During
    1994, $2,000 of notes were converted.  Interest is
    payable semiannually and the Notes are redeemable at
    the option of the Company at set redemption prices,
    plus accrued interest, commencing January 1, 1997.
    Redemption prices range from 100.61% to 102.43% of principal.

    In March 1992, the Company issued $60,000,000 of
    Debentures, of which $39,535,000, $19,724,000 and
    $740,000 were converted during 1995, 1994 and 1993,
    respectively, and $1,000 was redeemed on April 1, 1995.
    The Debentures were generally convertible at any time
    prior to maturity into shares of Common Stock of the
    Company at a conversion price of $3.063 per share,
    subject to adjustment in certain events.  Interest was
    paid semiannually.

    The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated
    balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents, accounts
    receivable, current portion of long term debt, and
    accounts payable approximate fair value due to the
    short maturities of these instruments.  The fair value
    for the Notes is based upon the December 30, 1995
    prices on the New York Bond Exchange.

                                             1995
                            Carrying Amount     Fair Value
    4 1/4% Convertible
    Subordinated Notes
    due 2001                   $229,598,000   $229,024,000


    Long-Term Obligations

    The Company has a $14,000,000 mortgage collateralized
    by the Company's facility at 171 South Street,
    Hopkinton, Massachusetts. The mortgage rate is 10.5%
    and is payable in monthly installments, calculated on a
    30 year amortization schedule, with a lump sum payment
    of approximately $12,835,000 due on April 1, 1999.

    Payments remaining on the above mortgage note, the
    Company's commitments under capital leases and other
    miscellaneous notes (excluding the grants of EMC
    Ireland) are as follows:

      Fiscal Year                    Amount Payable
  
      1996                               $2,186,000
      1997                                2,243,000
      1998                                1,781,000
      1999                               13,091,000
      2000                                       --
      Total minimum payments             19,301,000
      Less amounts representing interest  4,485,000
      Present value of net payments      14,816,000
      Current portion                       719,000
      Long-term portion                 $14,097,000


     The Industrial Development Authority (IDA) of Ireland
     granted the Company $790,000 in 1989, $1,650,000 in
     1994 and $312,000 in 1995 towards the purchase price
     and improvements to the Company's facility in Ireland.
     The grants are included in long-term obligations and
     are amortized over periods of 25 years for funds used
     in building improvements and seven years for funds used
     to purchase equipment.  Remaining unamortized grants at
     December 30, 1995 are $2,347,000, of which $196,000 is
     current and $2,151,000 is long-term.

J.   Common Stock, Preferred Stock and Stock Options

     Common Stock
    
     At the Annual Meetings of the Company in 1995 and 1993,
     the stockholders approved amendments to the Company's
     Articles of Organization to increase the number of
     shares of authorized Common Stock.  The current
     authorization is 500,000,000 shares.
    
     The following stock splits were effected in the form of
     stock dividends in the following amounts and at the
     following dates: a three-for-two stock split effective
     November 24, 1992, for stockholders of record on
     November 9, 1992, a two-for-one stock split effective
     June 8, 1993, for stockholders of record on May 24,
     1993, and a two-for-one stock split effective December
     10, 1993, for stockholders of record on November 26, 1993.
     
     All share and per share data have been restated to
     reflect these splits.
    
     Preferred Stock
     
     At the Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company
     on November 17, 1993, the stockholders approved an
     amendment to the Company's Articles of Organization to
     authorize a new class of capital stock consisting of
     25,000,000 shares of Series Preferred Stock, $.01 par
     value, which may be issued from time to time in one or
     more series, with such terms as the Board of Directors
     may determine, without further action by the
     stockholders of the Company, except as may be required
     by applicable law or stock exchange rules.
     
     Stock Options

     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards
     Board issued Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
     Compensation", ("SFAS 123") which requires adoption of
     the disclosure provisions no later than fiscal years
     beginning after December 15, 1995 and adoption of the
     recognition and measurement provisions for non-employee
     transactions no later than December 15, 1995.  The new
     standard defines a fair value method of accounting for
     stock options and other equity instruments.  Under the
     fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the
     grant date based on the fair value of the award and is
     recognized over the service period, which is usually
     the vesting period.
     
     Pursuant to the new standard, companies are encouraged,
     but are not required, to adopt the fair value method of
     accounting for employee stock-based transactions.
     Companies are also permitted to continue to account for
     such transactions under Accounting Principles Board
     Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
     Employees" ("Opinion 25") but would be required to
     disclose in a note to the financial statements pro
     forma net income and, if presented, earnings per share
     as if the company had applied the new method of
     accounting.  The Company anticipates that it will
     continue to apply Opinion 25 for stock options and
     provide the note disclosure under SFAS 123 beginning in
     its year ended December 28, 1996.
     
     The Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the EMC
     Corporation 1993 and 1985 Stock Option Plans (the "1993
     Plan" and the "1985 Plan", respectively) to provide
     qualified incentive stock options and nonqualified
     stock options to key employees.  At the Annual Meeting
     of the Company on May 10, 1995, the stockholders
     approved an amendment to the 1993 Plan to increase the
     number of shares available to 8,000,000 shares from
     6,000,000 shares.  A total of 36,000,000 shares of
     Common Stock have been reserved for issuance under the
     1985 Plan.
     
     Under the terms of the 1993 and 1985 Plans the exercise
     price of incentive stock options issued must be equal to
     at least the fair market value of the Common Stock at the
     date of grant.  In the event that nonqualified stock
     options are granted under the 1993 Plan, the exercise
     price may be less than the fair market value at the time
     of grant but not less than par value which is $.01 per
     share.  In the event that nonqualified stock options are
     granted under the 1985 Plan, the exercise price may be
     less than the fair market value at the time of grant, but
     in the case of employees not subject to Section 16 of the
     Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Section 16") no less
     than par value which is $.01 per share, and in the case of
     employees subject to  Section 16, no less than 50% of the
     fair market value at the time of grant.  In general,
     options become exercisable in equal annual installments
     over the first five years after the date of grant.
     
     As of December 30, 1995, options exercisable under the
     1993 and 1985 Plans approximated 2,461,050 and shares
     available for future options amounted to 4,072,828.  Since
     May 16, 1995, no new incentive stock option has been able
     to be granted under the 1985 Plan.  Activity under the
     1993 and 1985 Plans for the three years ended December 30,
     1995 is as follows:
     
                                   Number        Exercise
                                of Shares           Price
                                                      
     Outstanding, 
     January 2, 1993           20,041,140    $   .06-3.71
     Granted                    4,389,200      6.47-17.63
     Canceled                    (331,000)      .58-12.44
     Exercised                 (5,448,069)       .06-3.71
     Outstanding, 
     January 1, 1994           18,651,271    $  .06-17.63
     Granted                    2,647,260      9.94-20.88
     Canceled                    (891,200)      .75-17.63
     Exercised                 (4,894,124)      .06-17.63
     Outstanding, 
     December 31, 1994         15,513,207    $  .58-20.88
     Options Relating to                              
       McDATA Merger              493,387       .29-11.42
     Granted                    2,734,503     13.63-22.00
     Canceled                  (1,415,043)      .58-17.63
     Exercised                 (4,131,707)      .58-19.88
     Outstanding, 
     December 30, 1995         13,194,347    $  .29-22.00
     
   In 1994, an employee of the Company was granted nonqualified 
   options to purchase 5,000 shares of Common Stock under the 
   1993 Plan at $9.94 per share, representing 50% of the per share 
   fair market value at the date of the grant. Discounts from 
   fair market value have been recorded as deferred compensation 
   and are being charged to earnings over the five year vesting
   period of the options.
   
   Generally, when shares acquired pursuant to the exercise
   of incentive stock options are sold within one year of
   exercise or within two years from the date of grant, the
   Company derives a tax deduction measured by the amount
   that the market value exceeds the option price at the
   date the options are exercised.  When nonqualified stock
   options are exercised, the Company derives a tax
   deduction measured by the amount that the market value
   exceeds the option price at the date the options are exercised.
   
   On January 31, 1989, the Board of Directors adopted the
   1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "1989 Plan")
   which was approved and adopted by the stockholders of
   the Company on May 10, 1989.  Under the 1989 Plan,
   eligible employees of the Company are given the option
   to purchase shares of Common Stock at 85% of fair market
   value by means of payroll deductions.  At the Annual
   Meeting of the Company on May 12, 1993 the stockholders
   approved an amendment to the 1989 Plan to increase the
   number of shares available from 2,700,000 to 3,900,000.
   A proposal will be submitted to the stockholders at the
   1996 Annual Meeting to increase the number of shares
   eligible for grant to 4,900,000 from the current
   authorization of 3,900,000 shares.  Options are granted
   twice yearly, on January 1 and July 1, and are
   exercisable on the succeeding June 30 or December 31.
   The purchase price for shares is the lower of 85% of the
   fair market value of the stock at the time of grant or
   85% of said value at the time of exercise.  In 1995,
   139,598 shares were exercised at $18.67 per share.  In
   1994, 387,218 shares were exercised at $11.48 per share.
   In 1993, 190,492 shares were exercised at $5.05 per
   share and 152,679 shares were exercised at $9.19 per share.

   At the Annual Meeting of the Company on May 12, 1992,
   the stockholders adopted the 1992 EMC Corporation Stock
   Option Plan for Directors (the "Directors Plan").

   A total of 1,800,000 shares of Common Stock have been
   reserved for issuance under the Directors Plan which is
   administered by the Executive Stock Option and Compensation 
   Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors.  
   The exercise price for each option granted under the Directors 
   Plan will be at a price per share determined by the Committee 
   at the time the option is granted, which price shall not be less 
   than 50% of the fair market value per share of Common Stock 
   on the date of grant.

   The Directors Plan initially provided that formula
   options would be exercisable in increments of 20% for
   the shares covered thereby on each of the first through
   fifth anniversaries of the grant.  In October 1995, the
   Committee amended the vesting schedule for newly granted
   formula options to a period of three years instead of
   five years so as to conform to a director's period of
   election to the Board of Directors. This amendment will
   be submitted to stockholders for approval at the 1996
   Annual Meeting. Subject to stockholder approval, formula
   options granted subsequent to such amendment will be
   exercisable in increments of 33 1/3% for the shares
   covered thereby on each of the first through third
   anniversaries of the grant.

   On October 20, 1995, two directors were granted options
   to purchase 80,000 shares of Common Stock at a per share
   price of $6.81, which represents 50% of the per share
   fair market value at the date of grant.  The discount
   from fair market value has been recorded as deferred
   compensation and is being amortized to earnings over the
   three year vesting period of the options.  On May 12,
   1993, a director was granted options to purchase 160,000
   shares of Common Stock at a per share price of $8.25,
   which represents 100% of the per share fair market value
   at the date of grant.  In 1995, options to purchase
   32,000 shares were exercised at $8.25.  In 1994, options
   to purchase 32,000 shares and 48,000 shares were
   exercised at $8.25 and $1.26, respectively.  In 1993,
   options to purchase 48,000 shares were exercised at
   $1.26 per share.

   In January 1996, the Committee adopted certain
   amendments to the Directors Plan, which allow for the
   granting of discretionary, non-formula based options.
   These amendments will be submitted to stockholders for
   approval at the 1996 Annual Meeting.

   All stock option plans and the employee stock purchase
   plan are administered by the Committee.

   Pursuant to the acquisition of McDATA, all options under
   McDATA's stock option plans which were outstanding and
   not exercisable as of the closing date were assumed by
   EMC.  Upon exercise of such options, the holders will
   receive EMC Common Stock.

K. Litigation

    On June 10, 1993, Storage Technology Corporation
    ("STK") filed suit against EMC in the United States
    District Court for the District of Colorado alleging
    that EMC is infringing three patents.  In the
    complaint, STK seeks injunctive relief, unspecified
    damages, including treble damages, plus attorney's fees
    and costs.  On July 20, 1993, EMC answered the
    complaint, denied STK's allegations and counterclaimed.
    In the counterclaims, EMC seeks unspecified damages,
    attorney's fees, costs and interest.  In a court
    hearing on October 12, 1994, STK's claims on two of the
    three patents were dismissed with prejudice.  No trial
    date has been set in this proceeding.

    On September 23, 1994, EMC filed suit against STK in
    the United States District Court for Delaware alleging
    that STK is infringing one EMC patent.  In the
    complaint, EMC seeks injunctive relief and unspecified
    damages, including treble damages, plus attorney's fees
    and costs. On October 12, 1994, STK answered the complaint, 
    denied any infringement and counterclaimed.  STK has 
    subsequently filed an additional counterclaim.  EMC has 
    denied STK's allegations.  Discovery on this case is currently 
    in process.  A trial is currently scheduled for October 1996.

    The Company is a party to other litigation which it
    considers routine and incidental to its business.
    Management does not expect the results of any of these
    actions to have a material adverse effect on the
    Company's business or financial condition.
    
L. Risks and Uncertainties

    Off-Balance-Sheet Risk

    The Company enters into forward exchange and foreign
    currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency
    transactions on a continuing basis for periods
    consistent with its committed exposures. The Company
    does not engage in currency speculation. The Company's
    foreign exchange contracts do not subject the Company
    to risk due to exchange rate movements because gains
    and losses on these contracts offset losses and gains
    on the assets, liabilities and transactions being
    hedged. To finance premiums paid on options, the
    Company may write offsetting options at exercise prices
    which limit but do not eliminate the effect of
    purchased options.  The maximum amount of foreign
    currency contracts outstanding during 1995 and 1994 was
    $228,750,000 and $96,479,000, respectively. At December
    30, 1995 and December 31, 1994, the Company had
    $202,031,000 and $89,691,000 of foreign exchange
    contracts outstanding, respectively, and $10,000,000
    and $10,000,000 of foreign currency options, respectively.

    Concentrations of Credit Risk

    Financial instruments which potentially subject the
    Company to concentrations of credit risk consist
    principally of temporary cash investments, long-term
    investments and trade and notes receivable. The Company
    places its temporary cash investments and long-term
    investments in investment grade instruments and limits
    the amount of investment with any one financial
    institution. The credit risk associated with trade
    receivables is minimal due to the large number of
    customers and their broad dispersion over many
    different industries and geographic areas. During 1995
    and 1994, no single customer accounted for greater than
    10% of the Company's revenues.
 
    Manufacturing Risks
    
    The Company's products operate near the limits of
    electronic and physical performance and are designed
    and manufactured with relatively small tolerances. If
    flaws in design, production, assembly or testing occur
    on the part of EMC or its suppliers, EMC may experience
    a rate of failure in its products that results in
    substantial repair or replacement costs and potential
    damage to EMC's reputation, any of which could have
    substantial adverse effects on EMC's operations and
    ultimately on its financial results.
    
    The Company purchases certain components and products,
    including high density DRAMS and disk drives, from
    suppliers who the Company believes are currently the
    only suppliers of those components or products that
    meet the Company's requirements.  A failure by any such
    supplier to meet the Company's requirements for an
    extended period of time could cause the Company to lose
    some time-sensitive customer orders which could
    adversely affect quarterly revenues and earnings.
 
    Use of Accounting Estimates
 
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity
    with generally accepted accounting principles requires
    management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
    the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during
    the reporting period and the disclosure of contingent
    assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
    statements.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
M.  Segment Information

    The Company is active in primarily one business
    segment:  designing, manufacturing and marketing high
    performance storage products.  Information by
    geographic area is presented below with exports shown
    in their area of origin.  Sales and marketing
    operations outside the U.S. are conducted through sales
    subsidiaries and branches located principally in Europe
    and the Asia Pacific region.  The U.S. market amounted
    to greater than 95% of the Company's sales, income and
    identifiable assets in the North/South America segment.
 
    Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are
    accounted for at prices which are designed to be
    representative of unaffiliated party transactions.
    (Amounts are in thousands.)

                             Europe,
                North/South  Middle East,   Asia                  Consolidated
                America      Africa         Pacific   Eliminations       Total

1995
Sales            $1,230,223   $567,303    $123,749      $    ---    $1,921,275
Transfers between
 areas              134,073    141,003          10      (275,086)          ---

Total sales       1,364,296    708,306     123,759      (275,086)    1,921,275
Income from
 operations         264,168    176,293       1,805        (6,487)      435,779
Identifiable assets at
 year end         1,669,928    144,081      77,923      (146,203)    1,745,729

1994
Sales              $871,048   $449,467     $56,977      $    ---    $1,377,492
Transfers between
 areas              123,587     61,577         110      (185,274)          ---

Total sales         994,635    511,044      57,087      (185,274)    1,377,492
Income (loss) from
 operations         155,544    196,658         (97)       (1,573)      350,532
Identifiable assets at
 year end         1,230,883    171,233      36,437      (121,053)    1,317,500


1993
Sales              $526,771   $251,363      $4,487      $    ---      $782,621
Transfers between
 areas              100,237     83,726         ---      (183,963)          ---

Total sales         627,008    335,089       4,487      (183,963)      782,621
Income (loss) from
 operations         107,512     70,324        (990)        3,582       180,428
Identifiable assets at
 year end           684,576    192,682       2,383       (49,995)      829,646


N. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
   (amounts in thousands except per share amounts)

Fiscal Year 1995                Q1 1995   Q2 1995   Q3 1995   Q4 1995

Net sales, service and rental  $448,116  $478,553  $475,460  $519,146
Gross profit                    230,008   246,791   235,183   206,417
Net income                       85,449    94,111    85,158    62,127
Net income per share,
(fully diluted)                   $0.35     $0.38     $0.35     $0.26

Fiscal Year 1994                Q1 1994   Q2 1994   Q3 1994   Q4 1994

Net sales, service and rental  $267,058  $308,116  $371,582  $430,736
Gross profit                    142,651   161,733   195,249   217,825
Net income                       48,840    54,569    69,395    77,864
Net income per share,
(fully diluted)                   $0.22     $0.24     $0.30     $0.34

The first three quarters of 1995 have been restated to reflect the 
acquisition of McDATA, accounted for as a pooling of interests.
   
<PAGE>


ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

     None.


<PAGE>

                          PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The Company will furnish to the Securities and Exchange
Commission a definitive Proxy Statement (the "Proxy
Statement") not later than 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year ended December 30, 1995.  The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.  Also see "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" in Part I of this form.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this item is incorporated
herein by reference to the Proxy Statement.

<PAGE>
      
                         PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)

1.   Financial Statements

     The financial statements listed in the accompanying
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule
on page 59 are filed as part of this report.

2.   Schedule

     The schedule listed in the accompanying Index to
Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedule on page 60
is filed as part of this report.

3.   Exhibits

     See Index to Exhibits pages 61 through 62 of this
report.

     The exhibits are filed with or incorporated by
reference in this report.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.


     On October 27, 1995, the registrant filed a report
(Date of Report: October 27, 1995) on Form 8-K reporting,
under Item 5, a Plan of Merger and Agreement by and among
the Company, EMC Merger Corporation 1995, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, and McDATA Corporation.

     On December 19,1995, the registrant filed a report
(Date of Report: December 7, 1995) on Form 8-K reporting,
under Item 5, the completion of the acquisition of McDATA
Corporation.

<PAGE>  


                         SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, EMC Corporation has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on March 26, 1996.


                              EMC CORPORATION

                              By:  /s/  Richard J. Egan
                                   Richard J. Egan
                                   Chairman of the Board

<PAGE>

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the
capacities on the date indicated as of March 26, 1996.

Signature                          Title

/s/ Richard J. Egan                Chairman of the Board
Richard J. Egan                    (Principal Executive Officer) and Director


/s/ Michael C. Ruettgers           President and Chief Executive Officer
Michael C. Ruettgers               and Director


/s/ John R. Egan                   Executive Vice President Sales and
John R. Egan                       Marketing and Director


/s/ Colin G. Patteson              Vice President, Chief Financial
Colin G. Patteson                  Officer and Treasurer
                                   (Principal Financial Officer)

/s/ William J. Teuber, Jr.         Vice President and Controller
William J. Teuber, Jr.             (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/ Michael J. Cronin              Director
Michael J. Cronin


/s/ John F. Cunningham             Director
John F. Cunningham


/s/ Maureen E. Egan                Director
Maureen E. Egan


/s/ W. Paul Fitzgerald             Director
W. Paul Fitzgerald


/s/ Joseph F. Oliveri              Director
Joseph F. Oliveri
 
<PAGE>

              EMC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
    COVERED BY REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


                                              Form 10-K


Consolidated Balance Sheets at
December 30, 1995 and  December 31, 1994      p. 29


Consolidated Statements of  Income
for the years ended December 30, 1995,
December 31, 1994, and January 1, 1994        p. 30


Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
for the years ended December 30, 1995,
December 31, 1994, and January 1, 1994        p. 31


Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
for the years ended December 30, 1995,
December 31, 1994, and January 1, 1994        p. 32


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    p.p. 33 - 53


Report of Independent Accountants             p. 28

<PAGE>

                           

Schedule:                          Form 10-K



     Schedule II - Valuation       Page S-1
     and Qualifying Accounts

     Report of Independent
     Accountants on Financial
     Statement  Schedule           Page 28


Note: All other financial statement schedules are
omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.

<PAGE>

The exhibits listed below are filed with or incorporated by reference 
in this report.

3.1  Articles of Organization of EMC Corporation.1

3.2  Articles of Amendment filed February 26, 1986.1

3.3  Articles of Amendment filed April 2, 1986.1

3.4  Articles of Amendment filed May 13, 1987.2

3.5  Articles of Amendment filed June 19, 1992.3

3.6  Articles of Amendment filed May 12, 1993.4

3.7  Articles of Amendment filed November 12, 1993.5

3.8  Articles of Amendment filed May 10, 1995.6

3.9  By-laws of EMC Corporation, as amended on July 21, 1995.7

4.1  Form of Stock Certificate.8

4.2  Indenture, dated as of December 17, 1993 between EMC
     Corporation and State Street Bank and Trust Company, Trustee.9

4.3  Form of 41/4% Convertible Subordinated Note Due 2001.10

10.1 EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan, as amended.11

10.2 EMC Corporation 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended.11

10.3 EMC Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan for Directors, as amended.11

10.4 EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan, as amended. 11

10.5 McDATA 1990 Class A Stock Option Plan (filed herewith).

10.6 McDATA 1990 Class B Stock Option Plan (filed herewith).

10.7 EMC Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan.1

10.7 Mortgage Agreement with and Note Payable to John Hancock Mutual Life
     Insurance Company.1

11.1 Computation of net income (loss) per share (filed herewith).

22.1 Subsidiaries of Registrant (filed herewith).

23.1 Consent of Independent Accountants dated March 26, 1996 (filed herewith).
____________________________________________________________

1    Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-3656)

2    Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-17218).

3    Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of
     EMC Corporation filed February 12, 1993.

4    Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-67224).

5    Incorporated herein from Current Report on Form 8-K of
     EMC Corporation filed November 19, 1993.

6    Incorporated herein from Current Report on Form 8-K of
     EMC Corporation filed May 26, 1995.

7    Incorporated herein from Quarterly Report on Form 10-K
     of EMC Corporation  filed August 11, 1995.

8    Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of
     EMC Corporation filed March 31, 1988.

9    Incorporated herein from Current Report on Form 8-K of
     EMC Corporation filed December 29, 1993.

10   Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's
     Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 33-71916).

11   Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of
     EMC Corporation filed March 29, 1995.

<PAGE>


              EMC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
       SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                              
                              
                         
                              
                    Balance at   Charged to   Charged to             Balance at
                    Beginning    Costs and    Other                  End of
Description         of Period    Expenses     Accounts  Deductions   Period
                                                                     
Year ended December                                                     
30, 1995                                                                
 Allowance for   
 doubtful accounts  $6,272,000  $2,435,000     ---     $(1,645,000) $7,062,000
 
                                                                       
Year ended December                                                     
31, 1994                                                                
 Allowance for
 doubtful accounts  $5,262,000  $2,223,000     ---     $(1,213,000) $6,272,000

                                                                        
Year ended January 
1, 1994                                                                    
 Allowance for
 doubtful accounts  $2,915,000  $2,699,000     ---    $  (352,000)  $5,262,000
                                                                

      
                                        S-1

                       
<PAGE>                              
                              
                              
                            EMC CORPORATION  
Exhibit 11.1  Computation of Primary and Fully Diluted Net Income Per Share

                                  1995            1994            1993
Primary
Net income (in thousands)     $326,845        $250,668        $127,122

Add back interest expense
on convertible notes             9,758           9,730             373

Less tax effect on interest
expense on convertible notes    (3,903)         (3,892)           (149)

Net income for purpose of
calculating primary net
income per share              $332,700        $256,506        $127,346

Weighted average shares
  outstanding during 
  the period               225,314,314     193,969,252     180,204,169

Common equivalent shares    20,071,895      24,076,414      16,281,991

Common and common equivalent
 shares outstanding for purpose of
 calculating primary 
 net income per share      245,386,209     218,045,666     196,486,160

Primary net income per share     $1.36           $1.18           $0.65
Fully Diluted

Net income (in thousands)     $326,845        $250,668        $127,122

Add back interest expense on
 convertible debentures 
 and notes                      10,374          12,700           4,097

Less tax effect on interest
 expense on convertible 
 debentures and notes           (4,150)         (5,080)         (1,601)

Net income for purpose of
 calculating fully diluted net
 income per share             $333,069        $258,288        $129,618

Common and common equivalent
 shares outstanding for purpose
 of calculating primary 
 net income per share      245,386,209     218,045,666     196,486,160

Incremental shares to 
 reflect full dilution       2,909,934      16,208,974      20,738,566

Total shares for purpose of 
 calculating fully diluted 
 net income per share      248,296,143     234,254,640     217,224,726

Fully diluted net income 
per share (Note B)               $1.34           $1.10           $0.60

<PAGE>                              

          EXHIBIT 22.1 - SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT


The following is a list of the Corporation's consolidated
subsidiaries as of March 15, 1996.  The Corporation owns,
directly or indirectly, 100% of the voting securities of
each subsidiary, unless noted otherwise and except for
director's qualifying shares.
                              
                                                  STATE OR
                                                  JURISDICTION OF
NAME                                              ORGANIZATION

Copernique S.A.                                   France

EMC Asset Acquisition Corporation                 Delaware

EMC (Benelux) B.V.                                Holland

EMC Caribe, Inc.                                  Delaware

EMC Computer Storage Systems (Israel) Ltd.        Israel

EMC Computer Systems AG                           Switzerland

EMC Computer Systems (Benelux) B.V.               Holland

EMC Computer Systems California, Inc.             Delaware

EMC Computer Systems (F.E.) Limited               Hong Kong

EMC Computer Systems France Sarl                  France

EMC Computer Systems Italy SPA                    Italy

EMC Computer Systems (S.A.) Pty. Ltd.             South Africa

EMC Computer Systems (South Asia) Pte. Ltd.       Singapore

EMC Computer Systems (U.K.) Limited               United Kingdom

EMC Computer-Systems AS                           Norway

EMC Computer-Systems A/S                          Denmark

EMC Computer-Systems Deutschland GMBH             Germany

EMC Computer-Systems Ireland Limited              Ireland

EMC Computer-Systems OY                           Finland

EMC Computer-Systems Svenska AB                   Sweden

EMC Foreign Sales Corporation (F.S.C.)            Barbados

EMC International Holdings, Inc.                  Delaware

EMC Japan K.K.*                                   Japan

EMC Securities Corporation                        Massachusetts

EMC System Peripherals Canada, Inc.               Canada

Epoch, Inc.                                       Delaware

Hankook EMC Computer Systems Choesik Hoesa        Korea

McDATA Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.                     Singapore

McDATA Corporation                                Delaware

McDATA Europa GmbH                                Germany

McDATA International, Inc.                        U.S. Virgin Islands

McDATA UK Limited                                 United Kingdom

<PAGE>


     EXHIBIT 23.1 -  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS




     We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements of EMC Corporation on Form S-8 (File
Nos. 33-71262, 33-71598, 33-63665 and 333-1375) of our
reports dated January 25, 1996, on our audits of the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule of EMC Corporation as of December 30, 1995 and
December 31, 1994 and for the years ended December 30, 1995,
December 31, 1994, and January 1, 1994, which reports are
included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





                              COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P


Boston, Massachusetts
March 26, 1996

<PAGE>

EXHIBIT 10.5

                       McDATA CORPORATION
                 1990 CLASS A STOCK OPTION PLAN

             (As approved by the Board of Directors
                      on August 28, 1990,
                   and by the Stockholders on
                       November 16, 1990)
         

          Purpose

          The McDATA Corporation 1990 Class A
          Stock Option Plan ("Plan") provides for the grant
          of Stock Options to Employees of McDATA
          Corporation (the "Company"), and such of its
          subsidiaries (as defined in Section 425(f) of the
          Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code")) as the
          Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board")
          shall from time to time designate ("Participating
          Subsidiaries"), in order to advance the interests
          of the Company and its Participating Subsidiaries
          through the motivation, attraction and retention
          of their respective Employees.

       
          Incentive Stock Options and Non-Incentive
          Stock Options

          The Stock Options granted under the Plan may be
          either:

               Incentive Stock Options ("ISOs") which are
               intended to be "Incentive Stock Options" as that
               term is defined in Section 422A of the Code; or

               Nonstatutory Stock Options ("NSOs") which are
               intended to be options that do not qualify as
               "Incentive Stock Options" under Section 422A
               of the Code.

          All Stock Options shall be ISOs unless the
          Option Agreement clearly designates the Stock
          Options granted thereunder, or a specified portion
          thereof, as NSOs or unless the stockholders of the
          Company do not approve the Plan within twelve
          months after the Plan is adopted by the Board.  If
          the Plan is not approved by the stockholders of
          the Company within twelve months after the Plan is
          adopted by the Board, any ISO granted under the
          Plan shall be treated as an NSO as of the original
          date of grant, but all other terms and conditions
          of such Stock Options shall continue in effect.
          Subject to the other provisions of the Plan, a
          Participant may receive ISOs and NSOs at the same
          time, provided that the ISOs and NSOs are clearly
          designated as such.

          Except as otherwise expressly provided
          herein, all of the provisions and requirements of
          the Plan relating to Stock Options shall apply to
          ISOs and NSOs.



III.      Administration

                    Committee.  The Plan shall be
                 administered by a committee ("Committee")
                 composed of at least two members of the
                 Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors
                 may reserve to itself any of the authority
                 granted to the Committee as set forth
                 herein, and it may perform and discharge
                 all of the functions and responsibilities
                 of the Committee at any time that a duly
                 constituted Committee is not appointed and
                 serving.  All references in this Plan to
                 the "Committee" shall be deemed to refer to
                 the Board of Directors whenever the Board
                 is discharging the powers and
                 responsibilities of the Committee.  The
                 Committee or the Board, as the case may be,
                 shall have full authority to administer the
                 Plan, including authority to interpret and
                 construe any provision of the Plan and any
                 Stock Option granted thereunder, and to
                 adopt such rules and regulations for
                 administering the Plan as it may deem
                 necessary in order to comply with the
                 requirements of the Code or in order that
                 Stock Options that are intended to be ISOs
                 will be classified as incentive stock
                 options under the Code, or in order to
                 conform to any regulation or to any change
                 in any law or regulation applicable
                 thereto.  The Committee or the Board may
                 delegate any of its responsibilities under
                 the Plan, other than its responsibility to
                 grant Stock Options or to interpret and
                 construe the Plan.

                    Actions of Committee.  All actions taken
                 and all interpretations and determinations
                 made by the Committee in good faith
                 (including determinations of Fair Market
                 Value) shall be final and binding upon all
                 Participants, the Company and all other
                 interested persons.  No member of the
                 Committee shall be personally liable for
                 any action, determination or interpretation
                 made in good faith with respect to the
                 Plan, and all members of the Committee
                 shall, in addition to their rights as
                 directors, be fully protected by the
                 Company with respect to any such action,
                 determination or interpretation.

          

               Definitions

                    "Stock Option." A Stock Option is the
                 right granted under the Plan to an Employee
                 to purchase, at such time or times and at
                 such price or prices ("Option Price") as
                 are determined by the Committee, the number
                 of shares of Common Stock determined by the
                 Committee.

                    "Common Stock." A share of Common Stock
                 means a share of authorized but unissued or
                 reacquired Class A Common Stock (par value
                 $.001 per share) of the Company.

                    "Fair Market Value." If the Common Stock
                 is not traded publicly, the Fair Market
                 Value of a share of Common Stock on any
                 date shall be determined, in good faith, by
                 the Board or the Committee after such
                 consultation with outside legal, accounting
                 and other experts as the Board or the
                 Committee may deem advisable, and the Board
                 or the Committee shall maintain a written
                 record of its method of determining such
                 value. If the Common Stock is traded
                 publicly, the Fair Market Value of a share
                 of Common Stock on any date shall be the
                 average of the representative closing bid
                 and asked prices, as quoted by the National
                 Association of Securities Dealers through
                 NASDAQ (its automated system for reporting
                 quotes), for the date in question or, if
                 the Common Stock is listed on the NASDAQ
                 National Market System or is listed on a
                 national stock exchange, the officially
                 quoted closing price on NASDAQ or such
                 exchange, as the case may be, on the date
                 in question.

                    "Employee".  An Employee is an employee
                 of the Company or any Participating
                 Subsidiary.

                    "Participant".  A Participant is an
                 Employee to whom a Stock Option is granted.

          

               Eligibility and Participation

               Grants of Stock Options under this Plan may
          be made to Employees who are, at the time of
          grant, holders of Class A Common Stock or of
          options to acquire Class A Common Stock of the
          Company.  Any Director of the Company or of a
          Participating Subsidiary who is also an Employee
          shall also be eligible to receive Stock Options,
          but Directors who are not Employees shall not be
          eligible to receive Stock Options under the Plan.

               The Committee shall from time to time
          determine the Employees to whom Stock Options
          shall be granted, the number of shares of Common
          Stock subject to each Stock Option to be granted
          to each such Employee, the Option Price of such
          Stock Options, all as provided in this Plan.  The
          Option Price of any ISO shall be not less than the
          Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on
          the date on which the Stock Option is granted.
          The Option Price of an NSO shall not be less than
          50% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
          Stock on the date the NSO is granted.  If an ISO
          is granted to an Employee who then owns stock
          possessing more than 10% of the total combined
          voting power of all classes of stock of the
          Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation of
          the Company, the Option Price of such ISO shall be
          at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of the
          Common Stock subject to the ISO at the time such
          ISO is granted, and such ISO shall not be
          exercisable after five years after the date on
          which it was granted.  Each Stock Option shall be
          evidenced by a written agreement ("Option
          Agreement") containing such terms and provisions
          as the Committee may determine, subject to the
          provisions of this Plan.

          

               Shares of Common Stock Subject to the Plan

                    Maximum Number.  The maximum aggregate
                 number of shares of Common Stock that may
                 be made subject to stock options under this
                 Plan shall be 3,000,000 shares; provided
                 that such number of shares shall be reduced
                 by the number of shares subject to
                 outstanding options under the Company's
                 1982 Incentive Stock Option Plan.  To the
                 extent that if the aggregate Fair Market
                 Value (determined as of the time a Stock
                 Option is granted) of the Common Stock
                 subject to a Stock Option that first
                 becomes exercisable in a particular
                 calendar year exceeds $100,000, the Stock
                 Option shall be treated as an NSO with
                 respect to the portion of such shares
                 having a Fair Market Value in excess of
                 $100,000.  If any shares of Common Stock
                 subject to Stock Options are not purchased
                 or otherwise paid for before such Stock
                 Options expire, such shares may again be
                 made subject to Stock Options.

                    Capital Changes.  In the event any
                 changes are made to the outstanding shares
                 of Common Stock (whether by reason of
                 merger, consolidation, reorganization,
                 recapitalization, stock dividend in excess
                 of ten percent (10%) at any single time,
                 stock split, combination of shares,
                 exchange of shares, change in corporate
                 structure or otherwise), appropriate
                 adjustments shall be made in: (i) the
                 number of shares of Common Stock
                 theretofore made subject to Stock Options,
                 and in the purchase price of said shares;
                 and (ii) the aggregate number of shares
                 which may be made subject to Stock Options.
                 If any of the foregoing adjustments shall
                 result in a fractional share, the fraction
                 shall be disregarded, and the Company shall
                 have no obligation to make any cash or
                 other payment with respect to such a
                 fractional share.

          

          VII.   Exercise of Stock Options

                    Time of Exercise.  Subject to the
                 provisions of the Plan, the Committee, in
                 its discretion, shall determine the time
                 when a Stock Option, or a portion of a
                 Stock Option, shall become exercisable, and
                 the time when a Stock Option, or a portion
                 of a Stock Option, shall expire. Such time
                 or times shall be set forth in the Option
                 Agreement evidencing such Stock Option.
                 Unless otherwise determined by the
                 Committee, a Stock Option shall become
                 exercisable in four equal installments on
                 the first four anniversaries of the date of
                 grant.  A Stock Option shall expire, to the
                 extent not exercised, no later than the
                 tenth anniversary of the date on which it
                 was granted.  The Committee may accelerate
                 the vesting of any Participant's Stock
                 Option by giving written notice to the
                 Participant.  Upon receipt of such notice,
                 the Participant and the Company shall amend
                 the Option Agreement to reflect the new
                 vesting schedule.  Unless otherwise
                 determined by the Committee, the
                 acceleration of the exercise period of a
                 Stock Option shall not affect the
                 expiration date of that Stock Option.

                    Exchange of Outstanding Stock.  The
                 Committee, in its sole discretion, may
                 permit a Participant to surrender to the
                 Company shares of the Common Stock
                 previously acquired by the Participant as
                 part of full payment for the exercise of a
                 Stock Option.  Such surrendered shares
                 shall be valued at their Fair Market Value
                 on the date of exercise.  Unless otherwise
                 determined by the Committee, any such
                 shares surrendered by the Participant shall
                 have been held by him for at least six
                 months prior to surrender.

                    Stock Restriction Agreement.  The
                 Committee may provide that shares of Common
                 Stock issuable upon the exercise of a Stock
                 Option shall, under certain conditions, be
                 subject to restrictions whereby the Company
                 has a right of first refusal with respect
                 to such shares or a right or obligation to
                 repurchase all or a portion of such shares,
                 which restrictions may survive a
                 Participant's term of employment with the
                 Company.  The acceleration of the time or
                 times at which the Stock Option becomes
                 exercisable may be conditioned upon the
                 Participant's agreement to such
                 restrictions.

                    Termination of Employment Before
                 Exercise.  If a Participant's employment
                 with the Company or a Participating
                 Subsidiary shall terminate for any reason
                 other than the Participant's disability,
                 any Stock Option then held by the
                 Participant, to the extent then exercisable
                 under the applicable Option Agreement(s),
                 shall remain exercisable after the
                 termination of his employment for a period
                 of three months.  If the Participant's
                 employment is terminated because the
                 Participant is disabled within the meaning
                 of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, any Stock
                 Option then held by the Participant, to the
                 extent then exercisable under the
                 applicable Option Agreement(s), shall
                 remain exercisable after the termination of
                 his employment for a period of twelve
                 months (but in no event beyond ten years
                 from the date of grant of the Stock
                 Option).  If the Stock Option is not
                 exercised during the applicable period, it
                 shall be deemed to have been forfeited and
                 of no further force or effect.

                    Disposition of Forfeited Stock Options.
                 Any shares of Common Stock subject to Stock
                 Options forfeited by a Participant shall
                 not thereafter be eligible for purchase by
                 the Participant but may be made subject to
                 Stock Options granted to other
                 Participants.



          No Contract of Employment

               Nothing in this Plan shall confer upon the
          Participant the right to continue in the employ of the
          Company, or any Participating Subsidiary, nor shall it
          interfere in any way with the right of the Company, or
          any such Participating Subsidiary, to discharge the
          Participant at any time for any reason whatsoever, with
          or without cause.  Nothing in this Article VIII shall
          affect any rights or obligations of the Company or any
          Participant under any written contract of employment.

          

               No Rights as a Stockholder

          A Participant shall have no rights as a
          stockholder with respect to any shares of Common
          Stock subject to a Stock Option.  Except as
          provided in Section 6.2, no adjustment shall be
          made in the number of shares of Common Stock
          issued to a Participant, or in any other rights of
          the Participant upon exercise of a Stock Option by
          reason of any dividend, distribution or other
          right granted to stockholders for which the record
          date is prior to the date of exercise of the
          Participant's Stock Option.

          
          Assignability

               No Stock Option granted under this Plan, nor
          any other rights acquired by a Participant under
          this Plan, shall be assignable or transferable by
          a Participant, other than by will or the laws of
          descent and distribution, and are exercisable,
          during his lifetime, only by him. Notwithstanding
          the preceding sentence, the Committee may, in its
          sole discretion, permit the assignment or transfer
          of an NSO and the exercise thereof by a person
          other than a Participant, on such terms and
          conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion
          may determine. Any such terms shall be determined
          at the time the NSO is granted, and shall be set
          forth in the Option Agreement.  In the event of
          his death, the Stock Option may be exercised by
          the Personal Representative of the Participant's
          estate or, if no Personal Representative has been
          appointed, by the successor or successors in
          interest determined under the Participant's will
          or under the applicable laws of descent and
          distribution.

          

          Amendment

          The Board may from time to time alter,
          amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan, including,
          where applicable, any modifications or amendments
          as it shall deem advisable in order that ISOs will
          be classified as incentive stock options under the
          Code, or in order to conform to any regulation or
          to any change in any law or regulation applicable
          thereto; provided, however, that no such action
          shall adversely affect the rights and obligations
          with respect to Stock Options at any time
          outstanding under the Plan.



XII.      Registration of Optioned Shares

               The Stock Options shall not be exercisable
          unless the purchase of such optioned shares is pursuant to
          an applicable effective registration statement under the
          Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or unless, in the
          opinion of counsel to the Company, the proposed purchase of
          such optioned shares would be exempt from the registration
          requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and
          from the registration or qualification requirements of
          applicable state securities laws.



     Withholding Taxes

               The Company or Participating Subsidiary may
          take such steps as it may deem necessary or appropriate
          for the withholding of any taxes which the Company or
          the Participating Subsidiary is required by any law or
          regulation or any governmental authority, whether
          federal, state or local, domestic or foreign, to
          withhold in connection with any Stock Option,
          including, but not limited to, the withholding of all
          or any portion of any issuance of shares of Common
          Stock upon the exercise of any Stock Option until the
          Participant reimburses the Company or Participating
          Subsidiary for the amount the Company or Participating
          Subsidiary is required to withhold with respect to such
          taxes, or cancelling any portion of such issuance in an
          amount sufficient to reimburse itself for the amount it
          is required to so withhold.



          Brokerage Arrangements

                 The Committee, in its discretion, may enter
          into arrangements with one or more banks, brokers
          or other financial institutions to facilitate the
          disposition of shares acquired upon exercise of
          Stock Options, including, without limitation,
          arrangements for the simultaneous exercise of
          Stock Options and sale of the shares acquired upon
          such exercise.

          

          Nonexclusivity of the Plan

          Neither the adoption of the Plan by the
          Board nor the submission of the Plan to
          stockholders of the Company for approval shall be
          construed as creating any limitations on the power
          or authority of the Board to adopt such other or
          additional incentive or other compensation
          arrangements of whatever nature as the Board may
          deem necessary or desirable or preclude or limit
          the continuation of any other plan, practice or
          arrangement for the payment of compensation or
          fringe benefits to employees generally, or to any
          class or group of employees, which the Company or
          any Subsidiary now has lawfully put into effect,
          including, without limitation, any retirement,
          pension, savings and stock purchase plan,
          insurance, death and disability benefits and
          executive short-term incentive plans.



XVI.      Effective Date

               This Plan was adopted by the Board of
          Directors and became effective on August 28, 1990, and was
          approved by the Company's stockholders on November 16, 1990.
          No Stock Options shall be granted subsequent to ten years
          after the effective date of the Plan.  Stock Options
          outstanding subsequent to ten years after the effective date
          of the Plan shall continue to be governed by the provisions
          of the Plan.

<PAGE>


EXHIBIT 10.6
   
                    McDATA CORPORATION
              1990 CLASS B STOCK OPTION PLAN
                              
           (As approved by the Board of Directors
                on July 27, 1990, and by the
             Stockholders on November 16, 1990)
                              
                              
          Purpose

               The McDATA Corporation 1990 Class B Stock
          Option Plan ("Plan") provides for the grant of
          Stock Options to Employees of McDATA Corporation
          (the "Company"), and such of its subsidiaries (as
          defined in Section 425(f) of the Internal Revenue
          Code of 1986 (the "Code")) as the Board of
          Directors of the Company (the "Board") shall from
          time to time designate ("Participating
          Subsidiaries"), in order to advance the interests
          of the Company and its Participating Subsidiaries
          through the motivation, attraction and retention
          of their respective Employees.

          
          Incentive Stock Options and Non-Incentive Stock
          Options

          The Stock Options granted under the Plan may be
          either:

               Incentive Stock Options ("ISOs") which are
               intended to be "Incentive Stock Options" as
               that term is defined in Section 422A of the
               Code; or

               Nonstatutory Stock Options ("NSOs") which are
               intended to be options that do not qualify as
               "Incentive Stock Options" under Section 422A
               of the Code.

               All Stock Options shall be ISOs unless the
          Option Agreement clearly designates the Stock
          Options granted thereunder, or a specified portion
          thereof, as NSOs or unless the stockholders of the
          Company do not approve the Plan within twelve
          months after the Plan is adopted by the Board.  If
          the Plan is not approved by the stockholders of
          the Company within twelve months after the Plan is
          adopted by the Board, any ISO granted under the
          Plan shall be treated as an NSO as of the original
          date of grant, but all other terms and conditions
          of such Stock Options shall continue in effect.
          Subject to the other provisions of the Plan, a
          Participant may receive ISOs and NSOs at the same
          time, provided that the ISOs and NSOs are clearly
          designated as such.

               Except as otherwise expressly provided
          herein, all of the provisions and requirements of
          the Plan relating to Stock Options shall apply to
          ISOs and NSOs.


          Administration

               Committee.  The Plan shall be administered by
               a committee ("Committee") composed of at
               least two members of the Board of Directors.
               The Board of Directors may reserve to itself
               any of the authority granted to the Committee
               as set forth herein, and it may perform and
               discharge all of the functions and
               responsibilities of the Committee at any time
               that a duly constituted Committee is not
               appointed and serving.  All references in
               this Plan to the "Committee" shall be deemed
               to refer to the Board of Directors whenever
               the Board is discharging the powers and
               responsibilities of the Committee.  The
               Committee or the Board, as the case may be,
               shall have full authority to administer the
               Plan, including authority to interpret and
               construe any provision of the Plan and any
               Stock Option granted thereunder, and to adopt
               such rules and regulations for administering
               the Plan as it may deem necessary in order to
               comply with the requirements of the Code or
               in order that Stock Options that are intended
               to be ISOs will be classified as incentive
               stock options under the Code, or in order to
               conform to any regulation or to any change in
               any law or regulation applicable thereto.
               The Committee or the Board may delegate any
               of its responsibilities under the Plan, other
               than its responsibility to grant Stock
               Options or to interpret and construe the Plan.

               Actions of Committee.  All actions taken and
               all interpretations and determinations made
               by the Committee in good faith (including
               determinations of Fair Market Value) shall be
               final and binding upon all Participants, the
               Company and all other interested persons.  No
               member of the Committee shall be personally
               liable for any action, determination or
               interpretation made in good faith with
               respect to the Plan, and all members of the
               Committee shall, in addition to their rights
               as directors, be fully protected by the
               Company with respect to any such action,
               determination or interpretation.


          Definitions

               "Stock Option." A Stock Option is the right
               granted under the Plan to an Employee to
               purchase, at such time or times and at such
               price or prices ("Option Price") as are
               determined by the Committee, the number of
               shares of Common Stock determined by the
               Committee.

               "Common Stock." A share of Common Stock means
               a share of authorized but unissued or
               reacquired Class B Common Stock (par value
               $.001 per share) of the Company.

               "Fair Market Value." If the Common Stock is
               not traded publicly, the Fair Market Value of
               a share of Common Stock on any date shall be
               determined, in good faith, by the Board or
               the Committee after such consultation with
               outside legal, accounting and other experts
               as the Board or the Committee may deem
               advisable, and the Board or the Committee
               shall maintain a written record of its method
               of determining such value.  If the Common
               Stock is traded publicly, the Fair Market
               Value of a share of Common Stock on any date
               shall be the average of the representative
               closing bid and asked prices, as quoted by
               the National Association of Securities
               Dealers through NASDAQ (its automated system
               for reporting quotes), for the date in
               question or, if the Common Stock is listed on
               the NASDAQ National Market System or is
               listed on a national stock exchange, the
               officially quoted closing price on NASDAQ or
               such exchange, as the case may be, on the
               date in question.

               "Employee".  An Employee is an employee of
               the Company or any Participating Subsidiary.

               "Participant".  A Participant is an Employee
               to whom a Stock Option is granted.


          Eligibility and Participation

               Grants of Stock Options may be made to
          Employees of the Company or any Participating
          Subsidiary.  Any Director of the Company or of a
          Participating Subsidiary who is also an Employee
          shall also be eligible to receive Stock Options,
          but Directors who are not Employees shall not be
          eligible to receive Stock Options under the Plan.
          The Committee shall from time to time determine
          the Employees to whom Stock Options shall be
          granted, the number of shares of Common Stock
          subject to each Stock Option to be granted to each
          such Employee, the Option Price of such Stock
          Options, all as provided in this Plan.  The Option
          Price of any ISO shall be not less than the Fair
          Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the
          date on which the Stock Option is granted.  The
          Option Price of an NSO shall not be less than 50%
          of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common
          Stock on the date the NSO is granted.  If an ISO
          is granted to an Employee who then owns stock
          possessing more than 10% of the total combined
          voting power of all classes of stock of the
          Company or any parent or subsidiary corporation of
          the Company, the Option Price of such ISO shall be
          at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of the
          Common Stock subject to the ISO at the time such
          ISO is granted, and such ISO shall not be
          exercisable after five years after the date on
          which it was granted.  Each Stock Option shall be
          evidenced by a written agreement ("Option
          Agreement") containing such terms and provisions
          as the Committee may determine, subject to the
          provisions of this Plan.

          
          Shares of Common Stock Subject to the Plan

               Maximum Number.  The maximum aggregate
               number of shares of Common Stock that may be
               made subject to stock options under this Plan
               shall be 1,500,000 shares; provided that such
               number of shares shall be reduced by the
               number of shares subject to outstanding
               options under the Company's 1988 Incentive
               Stock Option Plan and Director Stock Option
               Plan, and by the number of shares issued
               under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase
               Plan and 401(k) Plan.  To the extent that if
               the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined
               as of the time a Stock Option is granted) of
               the Common Stock subject to a Stock Option
               that first becomes exercisable in a
               particular calendar year exceeds $100,000,
               the Stock Option shall be treated as an NSO
               with respect to the portion of such shares
               having a Fair Market Value in excess of
               $100,000. If any shares of Common Stock
               subject to Stock Options are not purchased or
               otherwise paid for before such Stock Options
               expire, such shares may again be made subject
               to Stock Options.

               Capital Changes.  In the event any changes
               are made to the outstanding shares of Common
               Stock (whether by reason of merger,
               consolidation, reorganization,
               recapitalization, stock dividend in excess of
               ten percent (10%) at any single time, stock
               split, combination of shares, exchange of
               shares, change in corporate structure or
               otherwise), appropriate adjustments shall be
               made in: (i) the number of shares of Common
               Stock theretofore made subject to Stock
               Options, and in the purchase price of said
               shares; and (ii) the aggregate number of
               shares which may be made subject to Stock
               Options.  If any of the foregoing adjustments
               shall result in a fractional share, the
               fraction shall be disregarded, and the
               Company shall have no obligation to make any
               cash or other payment with respect to such a
               fractional share. VII. Exercise of Stock
               Options


     Exercise of Stock Options

               Time to Exercise.  Subject to the provisions
               of the Plan, the Committee, in its
               discretion, shall determine the time when a
               Stock Option, or a portion of a Stock Option,
               shall become exercisable, and the time when a
               Stock Option, or a portion of a Stock Option,
               shall expire.  Such time or times shall be
               set forth in the Option Agreement evidencing
               such Stock Option.  Unless otherwise
               determined by the Committee, a Stock Option
               shall become exercisable in four equal
               installments on the first four anniversaries
               of the date of grant.  A Stock Option shall
               expire, to the extent not exercised, no later
               than the tenth anniversary of the date on
               which it was granted.  The Committee may
               accelerate the vesting of any Participant's
               Stock Option by giving written notice to the
               Participant.  Upon receipt of such notice,
               the Participant and the Company shall amend
               the Option Agreement to reflect the new
               vesting schedule.  Unless otherwise
               determined by the Committee, the acceleration
               of the exercise period of a Stock Option
               shall not affect the expiration date of that
               Stock Option.

               Exchange of Outstanding Stock.  The
               Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit
               a Participant to surrender to the Company
               shares of the Common Stock previously
               acquired by the Participant as part of full
               payment for the exercise of a Stock Option.
               Such surrendered shares shall be valued at
               their Fair Market Value on the date of
               exercise.  Unless otherwise determined by the
               Committee, any such shares surrendered by the
               Participant shall have been held by him for
               at least six months prior to surrender.

               Stock Restriction Agreement.  The Committee
               may provide that shares of Common Stock
               issuable upon the exercise of a Stock Option
               shall, under certain conditions, be subject
               to restrictions whereby the Company has a
               right of first refusal with respect to such
               shares or a right or obligation to repurchase
               all or a portion of such shares, which
               restrictions may survive a Participant's term
               of employment with the Company.  The
               acceleration of the time or times at which
               the Stock Option becomes exercisable may be
               conditioned upon the Participant's agreement
               to such restrictions.

               Termination of Employment Before Exercise.
               If a Participant's employment with the
               Company or a Participating Subsidiary shall
               terminate for any reason other than the
               Participant's disability, any Stock Option
               then held by the Participant, to the extent
               then exercisable under the applicable Option
               Agreements), shall remain exercisable after
               the termination of his employment for a
               period of three months.  If the Participant's
               employment is terminated because the
               Participant is disabled within the meaning of
               Section 22(e)(3) of the Code, any Stock
               Option then held by the Participant, to the
               extent then exercisable under the applicable
               Option Agreement(s), shall remain exercisable
               after the termination of his employment for a
               period of twelve months (but in no event
               beyond ten years from the date of grant of
               the Stock Option).  If the Stock Option is
               not exercised during the applicable period,
               it shall be deemed to have been forfeited and
               of no further force or effect.

               Disposition of Forfeited Stock Options.  Any
               shares of Common Stock subject to Stock
               Options forfeited by a Participant shall not
               thereafter be eligible for purchase by the
               Participant but may be made subject to Stock
               Options granted to other Participants.

          
          No Contract of Employment

               Nothing in this Plan shall confer upon the
          Participant the right to continue in the employ of
          the Company, or any Participating Subsidiary, nor
          shall it interfere in any way with the right of
          the Company, or any such Participating Subsidiary,
          to discharge the Participant at any time for any
          reason whatsoever, with or without cause.  Nothing
          in this Article VIII shall affect any rights or
          obligations of the Company or any Participant
          under any written contract of employment.


          No Rights as a Stockholder

               A Participant shall have no rights as a
          stockholder with respect to any shares of Common
          Stock subject to a Stock Option.  Except as
          provided in Section 6.2, no adjustment shall be
          made in the number of shares of Common Stock
          issued to a Participant, or in any other rights of
          the Participant upon exercise of a Stock Option by
          reason of any dividend, distribution or other
          right granted to stockholders for which the record
          date is prior to the date of exercise of the
          Participant's Stock Option.


          Assignability

               No Stock Option granted under this Plan, nor
          any other rights acquired by a Participant under
          this Plan, shall be assignable or transferable by
          a Participant, other than by will or the laws of
          descent and distribution, and are exercisable,
          during his lifetime, only by him. Notwithstanding
          the preceding sentence, the Committee may, in its
          sole discretion, permit the assignment or transfer
          of an NSO and the exercise thereof by a person
          other than a Participant, on such terms and
          conditions as the Committee in its sole discretion
          may determine. Any such terms shall be determined
          at the time the NSO is granted, and shall be set
          forth in the Option Agreement.  In the event of
          his death, the Stock Option may be exercised by
          the Personal Representative of the Participant's
          estate or, if no Personal Representative has been
          appointed, by the successor or successors in
          interest determined under the Participant's will
          or under the applicable laws of descent and
          distribution.


          Amendment

               The Board may from time to time alter, amend,
          suspend or discontinue the Plan, including, where
          applicable, any modifications or amendments as it
          shall deem advisable in order that ISOs will be
          classified as incentive stock options under the
          Code, or in order to conform to any regulation or
          to any change in any law or regulation applicable
          thereto; provided, however, that no such action
          shall adversely affect the rights and obligations
          with respect to Stock Options at any time
          outstanding under the Plan.


          Registration of Optioned Shares

               The Stock Options shall not be exercisable
          unless the purchase of such optioned shares is
          pursuant to an applicable effective registration
          statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as
          amended, or unless, in the opinion of counsel to
          the Company, the proposed purchase of such
          optioned shares would be exempt from the
          registration requirements of the Securities Act of
          1933, as amended, and from the registration or
          qualification requirements of applicable state
          securities laws.


          Withholding Taxes

               The Company or Participating Subsidiary may
          take such steps as it may deem necessary or
          appropriate for the withholding of any taxes which
          the Company or the Participating Subsidiary is
          required by any law or regulation or any
          governmental authority, whether federal, state or
          local, domestic or foreign, to withhold in
          connection with any Stock Option, including, but
          not limited to, the withholding of all or any
          portion of any issuance of shares of Common Stock
          upon the exercise of any Stock Option until the
          Participant reimburses the Company or
          Participating Subsidiary for the amount the
          Company or Participating Subsidiary is required to
          withhold with respect to such taxes, or cancelling
          any portion of such issuance in an amount
          sufficient to reimburse itself for the amount it
          is required to so withhold.


          Brokerage Arrangements

               The Committee, in its discretion, may enter
          into arrangements with one or more banks, brokers
          or other financial institutions to facilitate the
          disposition of shares acquired upon exercise of
          Stock Options, including, without limitation,
          arrangements for the simultaneous exercise of
          Stock Options and sale of the shares acquired upon
          such exercise.


          Nonexclusivity of the Plan

               Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board
          nor the submission of the Plan to stockholders of
          the Company for approval shall be construed as
          creating any limitations on the power or authority
          of the Board to adopt such other or additional
          incentive or other compensation arrangements of
          whatever nature as the Board may deem necessary or
          desirable or preclude or limit the continuation of
          any other plan, practice or arrangement for the
          payment of compensation or fringe benefits to
          employees generally, or to any class or group of
          employees, which the Company or any Subsidiary now
          has lawfully put into effect, including, without
          limitation, any retirement, pension, savings and
          stock purchase plan, insurance, death and
          disability benefits and executive short-term
          incentive plans.


          Effective Date

               This Plan was adopted by the Board of
          Directors and became effective on July 27, 1990, and was
          approved by the Company's stockholders on November 16, 1990.
          No Stock Options shall be granted subsequent to ten years
          after the effective date of the Plan.  Stock Options
          outstanding subsequent to ten years after the effective date
          of the Plan shall continue to be governed by the provisions
          of the Plan.

_______________________________
* Majority owned by EMC Corporation, the remainder owned by
CLC Corporation.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>2
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary financial information extracted from
EMC Corporation financial statements and is qualified in its entirety
by reference to such financial statements.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-30-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-30-1995
<CASH>                                         379,628
<SECURITIES>                                         0
<RECEIVABLES>                                  557,535
<ALLOWANCES>                                     7,062
<INVENTORY>                                    330,160
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             1,318,955
<PP&E>                                         346,596
<DEPRECIATION>                                 127,695
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               1,745,729
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          359,360
<BONDS>                                        245,845
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         2,325
<OTHER-SE>                                   1,137,976
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 1,745,729
<SALES>                                      1,921,275
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             1,921,275
<CGS>                                        1,002,876
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                1,002,876
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               482,620
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              12,857
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                450,821
<INCOME-TAX>                                   123,976
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            326,845
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   326,845
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    $1.36
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    $1.34
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
