-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 La2p//MDcVOJNjIujr1/tCQrv/5sOwl4CvoY2sr2u8T1s+bgMTqPJplO6x03VKPT
 UA/3W750wiIBkAYVFpp26A==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-00-012165.txt : 20000320
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-00-012165.hdr.sgml : 20000320
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-00-012165
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19991231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20000317

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000790070
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES [3572]
		IRS NUMBER:				042680009
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09853
		FILM NUMBER:		572351

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		35 PARKWOOD DRIVE
		CITY:			HOPKINTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01748-9103
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5084351000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		35 PARKWOOD DRIVE
		CITY:			HOPKINTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01748-9103
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                           --------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                   ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF

                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED: DECEMBER 31, 1999       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9853

                           --------------------------

                                EMC CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<TABLE>
<S>                                            <C>
             MASSACHUSETTS                                  04-2680009
    (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer Identification
    organization or incorporation)                           Number)
</TABLE>

                               35 PARKWOOD DRIVE
                         HOPKINTON, MASSACHUSETTS 01748
          (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)

                                 (508) 435-1000
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
            TITLE OF EACH CLASS:                NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED:
- ---------------------------------------------   ------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>
        Common Stock, $.01 par value                      New York Stock Exchange
 6% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2004               New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

                           --------------------------

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

    The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was $109,479,197,772 as of January 31, 2000.

    The number of shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of
January 31, 2000 was 1,041,079,616.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    The information required in response to Part III of Form 10-K is hereby
incorporated by reference to the specified portions of the registrant's Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 3, 2000.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
       The Company's prospects are subject to certain uncertainties and risks.
   This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains certain forward-looking
   statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. The Company's
   future results may differ materially from its current results and actual
   results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking
   statements as a result of certain risk factors. READERS SHOULD PAY
   PARTICULAR ATTENTION TO THE CONSIDERATIONS DESCRIBED IN THE SECTION OF THIS
   REPORT ENTITLED "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
   CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS--FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE
   RESULTS." Readers should also carefully review the risk factors described
   in the other documents the Company files from time to time with the
   Securities and Exchange Commission.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

    EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries ("EMC" or the "Company") design,
manufacture, market and support a wide range of hardware and software products
and provide services for the storage, management, protection and sharing of
electronic information. These integrated solutions enable organizations to
create an electronic information infrastructure, or what EMC calls an
E-Infostructure. EMC is the leading supplier of these solutions, which are
comprised of enterprise storage systems, networks, software and services. Its
products are sold to customers utilizing a variety of the world's most popular
computing platforms for key applications, including electronic commerce, data
warehousing and transaction processing. EMC believes these and other
information-intensive applications provide it with significant growth
opportunities.

    The effective management, sharing, protection and availability of critical
information is a major challenge for organizations as the number, size and scope
of and reliance on computer systems continues to grow. To address this market
opportunity, EMC has introduced the Enterprise Storage Network, or "ESN." An EMC
ESN is a dedicated network connecting EMC storage systems and software to all
major computing platforms via various network protocols, including fibre
channel. An ESN provides the basis for an E-Infostructure by enabling customers
to consolidate all of their information resources for more effective and
efficient management, sharing and protection.

    The Company's objective is to extend its position as the enterprise storage
solutions leader in the IT industry and to strengthen the EMC E-Infostructure as
the standard for networked storage. EMC develops its products by integrating
technologically advanced, industry standard components with Company-designed
hardware and software that the Company believes provide competitive advantages
for its customers.

    The customers for the Company's products are located worldwide and represent
a cross section of industries and government agencies. EMC products continue to
be accepted widely by both existing customers and new accounts in all major
industries worldwide.

    In 1999, the Company acquired Data General Corporation ("Data General"), a
leading provider of CLARiiON Fibre Channel storage systems and AViiON computer
systems. The Company integrated the CLARiiON product line into EMC's primary
storage line of business and formed a new Data General division to continue to
develop, market and service AViiON computers and related services.

    EMC, a Massachusetts corporation, was incorporated in 1979 and has its
corporate headquarters at 35 Parkwood Drive, Hopkinton, Massachusetts.

                                       1
<PAGE>
PRODUCTS AND OFFERINGS

STORAGE SYSTEMS

EMC SYMMETRIX ENTERPRISE STORAGE SYSTEMS

    The Company's flagship product line is the EMC Symmetrix Enterprise Storage
family of systems. The Company believes that the Symmetrix Enterprise Storage
systems offer the highest levels of functionality, performance and availability
in data centers and the high-end of the storage market. EMC's common hardware
architecture on which its Symmetrix products are based is called MOSAIC:2000, a
modular design and interface that allows new technologies to be rapidly
incorporated. This hardware architecture enables EMC to deliver advanced
technologies to market quickly while maintaining a consistent platform upon
which its customers can expand capacity, performance, connectivity and
functionality. This architectural hardware design has enabled the Company to
expand its Symmetrix products into existing markets and to enter new, strategic
markets quickly with proven storage products and services.

    Since the introduction of the first Symmetrix model in 1991, EMC has
continued to enhance and increase the capabilities of the Symmetrix family,
including increasing the host connectivity capabilities and adding advanced
software functionality. The Company intends to continue to introduce new
versions of the Symmetrix systems with increased performance and other
capabilities.

    The Company also continues to engage in research and development of new
hardware technology for the enterprise storage market.

EMC CLARIION FIBRE CHANNEL STORAGE SYSTEMS

    The EMC CLARiiON Fibre Channel family of products represents a range of
flexible and scalable midrange storage systems for Microsoft Windows NT and UNIX
platforms. EMC CLARiiON Fibre Channel storage systems offer fast, scalable and
dependable storage solutions for applications in the distributed environments of
large enterprises and for emerging companies with moderate but rapidly growing
demands on the performance, availability and manageability of their storage
infrastructure.

    The Company believes that the EMC CLARiiON Fibre Channel storage systems
offer storage with the highest performance and availability in the midrange
storage market. The Company intends to continue to introduce new versions of the
EMC CLARiiON systems with increased performance and other capabilities.

EMC CONNECTRIX ENTERPRISE STORAGE NETWORK SYSTEMS

    The EMC Connectrix Enterprise Storage Network System, introduced in March
1999, is the industry's first fully integrated fibre channel network
connectivity solution. EMC Connectrix facilitates the connection of a large
number of servers to a single storage system through fibre channel links. EMC
Connectrix offers up to 64-port switched Fibre Channel (FC-SW) connectivity
between EMC Symmetrix Enterprise Storage systems, EMC CLARiiON Fibre Channel
storage systems and distributed servers. Connectrix systems quadruple the number
of servers that can connect to these systems, when compared with direct fibre
channel server-to-storage connections.

    The Company believes that its EMC Connectrix systems, combined with its
storage systems with fibre channel connectivity, facilitate the implementation
of the EMC ESN and enable customers to build an E-Infostructure in which a
single pool of storage will handle all information storage requirements of even
the largest, most complex organizations.

    The Company intends to continue to introduce new versions of the EMC
Connectrix system with additional features and capabilities.

                                       2
<PAGE>
EMC CELERRA FILE SERVER

    The EMC Celerra File Server is a network-attached storage system providing
high performance, high availability and scalability for enterprise file storage.
The system features EMC-developed software and hardware, known as Data Movers,
within a common enclosure and with a common management environment. The Data
Movers and management environment connect to Symmetrix Enterprise Storage
systems and external customer networks through a variety of interfaces. A file
server's purpose is to provide end users with the ability to access, update and
store common files to a central location directly from their desktop computer
without the need to utilize a general purpose server.

    The Company intends to continue to introduce new versions of the EMC Celerra
File Server system with additional features and capabilities.

    Revenue from enterprise storage systems (including Symmetrix, Connectrix and
Celerra products) represented approximately 60%, 58% and 56% of revenues in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Revenue from CLARiiON storage systems
represented approximately 6%, 8% and 11% of revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively.

ENTERPRISE STORAGE SOFTWARE

    EMC offers highly innovative software that provides customers with superior
information management, sharing and protection capabilities. These capabilities
include enhanced backup/restore, disaster recovery, business continuance, data
migration and data movement. The Company's enterprise storage software is
intended to be used with its storage systems as well as with a variety of host
computers and applications developed by third parties. During 1999, the Company
introduced several new software products and enhancements to existing products.

    EMC's information management software includes EMC Control Center, EMC
PowerPath and EMC VolumeLogix. Examples of information sharing software are
Symmetrix Enterprise Storage Platform (ESP) and EMC InfoMover. The Company's
information protection software includes Symmetrix Remote Data Facility (SRDF),
EMC TimeFinder and EMC Data Manager (EDM).

    In August 1999, the Company announced its E-Infostructure Developers
Program, which makes certain of its application programming interfaces (APIs)
available to third-party independent software vendors (ISVs) to facilitate the
development and sale of software optimized to run on EMC systems. Customers are
then able to select from a wider range of software tools when deploying EMC
systems and to more easily integrate EMC systems into their existing software
environments.

    EMC also sponsored the formation of the FibreAlliance in 1999. The
FibreAlliance is an independent standards group comprised of numerous hardware
and software companies. The goal of the FibreAlliance is to develop and
implement common methods for managing the heterogeneous fibre channel-based
networks of storage systems and computer servers, which EMC calls ESNs. The
FibreAlliance is submitting these methods to independent standards bodies for
consideration as an industry-wide standard.

    The Company finalized its acquisition of software developer Softworks, Inc.
in January 2000. Softworks, Inc.'s products improve the management, performance
and integrity of critical corporate information across Windows NT, UNIX and
mainframe platforms and will be incorporated into the Company's software
portfolio.

    During 1999, EMC completed construction of a state-of-the-art software
development lab in Hopkinton, Massachusetts to support the Company's growing
software research and development efforts. EMC believes that its investments in
software development will accelerate adoption of EMC Enterprise Storage Network
models and facilitate implementation of an E-Infostructure by customers.

                                       3
<PAGE>
    Revenues from enterprise storage software represented approximately 12%, 8%
and 4% of revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

ENTERPRISE STORAGE SERVICES

PROFESSIONAL SERVICES

    EMC's Enterprise Storage Professional Services business, formed in 1997,
designs and delivers world-class professional services to its global customer
base. Such professional services assist customers in assessing, designing and
implementing storage solutions and an E-Infostructure customized to maximize
their return on information assets.

INTERNET SERVICES

    EMC's Internet Services Group, formed in 1997, provides a comprehensive web
site management service, leveraging the Company's resources, including its
Symmetrix systems and its suite of enterprise storage software. Through this
service, the Company develops, implements, maintains and monitors all the
technical aspects of a customer's internet presence, including management of
internet-based electronic commerce and database applications as well as web and
online advertising.

DATA GENERAL DIVISION

    EMC's Data General division, formed in 1999, designs, manufactures, markets
and supports the Company's line of AViiON open systems servers, which range from
dual-processor departmental servers to enterprise-wide systems. These servers,
combined with software and services, address market requirements for a
simplified computing environment that eliminates the complexity, reduces the
total cost of ownership, and provides reliability, high availability and
increased control of information.

    EMC's Data General division also provides integrated, pre-packaged
solutions, function-specific servers and related services that provide customers
with the highest levels of information availability.

    Revenue from EMC's Data General division server products represented
approximately 9%, 12% and 15% of revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

CUSTOMER SERVICE

    EMC's Customer Service organization, which includes over 3,000 technical,
field and support personnel, monitors the status of the Company's storage
solutions at customer sites 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.
These hardware and software solutions contain remote support features which
enable EMC customer service personnel to continuously monitor, diagnose and
resolve issues, wherever the product is located, often without the need for
on-site service. In 1999, the Company expanded its customer service capabilities
with the addition of new customer support centers in Japan and Australia.

MARKETS AND CHANNELS

STORAGE SYSTEMS MARKET

    During 1999, the Company focused primarily on two major customer markets:
the Global 2000 and Internet businesses. These markets are characterized by
their requirements for large amounts of information storage capacity and the
advanced functionality provided by EMC's products.

                                       4
<PAGE>
GLOBAL 2000

    The Global 2000, defined as the world's 2000 largest corporations, represent
a significant percentage of the Company's customer base. The Global 2000's
computing requirements encompass multiple computer platforms, including
mainframes, and those running the UNIX and Windows NT operating systems.

    As the size and scope of those systems increases, the Company's Global 2000
customers are deploying EMC's Enterprise Storage Networks for the consolidation,
management, sharing and protection of the information generated by those
platforms. By building an E-Infostructure to support multiple business
applications, these customers are able to quickly, cost-effectively and reliably
deploy and expand applications and systems. The Company believes it is the
leading storage supplier to the Global 2000.

INTERNET BUSINESS

    Internet-related businesses, those that conduct their primary business over
the Internet or provide Internet-related services to end users or other
businesses, represent a rapidly growing segment of the Company's customer base.
These businesses require rapid and constant access to extremely large volumes of
information. The Internet-related businesses' computing requirements are
typically standardized on a single computer platform, incorporating components
from several leading suppliers. EMC believes it is the leading storage provider
to Internet-related businesses.

    In October 1999, the Company launched its EMC Proven E-Infostructure
program. The EMC Proven program provides Internet-based businesses and service
providers with a marketing vehicle to effectively communicate the inherent value
of their investments in information infrastructure to customers and investors.
EMC Proven members have implemented the necessary enterprise storage resources
to operate at peak efficiency, adapt to a constantly changing business climate
and easily manage Internet-driven growth.

MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS

    EMC markets its products through multiple distribution channels, including
its direct sales force and selected distributors, systems integrators, resellers
and OEMs. The Company has a direct sales presence throughout North America,
Latin America, Europe, the Middle East, South Africa and the Asia Pacific region
and uses distributors as its primary distribution channel in other areas of the
world. During 1999, the Company continued broadening its direct and indirect
sales presence worldwide.

    During 1999, the Company derived 63% of its revenue from North America; 3%
from Latin America; 27% from Europe, the Middle East and Africa; and 7% from the
Asia Pacific region.

INDIRECT CHANNELS

    The Company believes its Symmetrix and CLARiiON products are well suited for
sale by resellers, systems integrators and OEMs. The Company has reseller or OEM
agreements with several systems vendors. These agreements enable the reseller or
OEM to market and resell certain of the Company's systems worldwide, subject to
certain terms and conditions, for connection to certain of the reseller or OEM's
respective computing platforms. The Company's principal reseller and OEM
agreements are with Unisys Corporation, Fujitsu/Siemens Computers ("FSC"),
International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") (formerly Sequent Computer
Corporation), Selectron, a subsidiary of AT&T/ NCR Corporation, Compagnie des
Machines Bull S.A. and NEC Corporation ("NEC"). EMC also had a reseller
agreement with Hewlett-Packard Company for enterprise storage products until
June 30, 1999, at which time the parties agreed to terminate this contract.

                                       5
<PAGE>
ALLIANCES

    The Company has alliances with leading software, relational database and
application companies, including Microsoft Corporation, SAP AG, Oracle
Corporation and other major independent software applications vendors. EMC
intends to continue to form additional strategic alliances. EMC's strategy is to
work closely with leading software companies to provide added value to its
customers by integrating EMC solutions with software applications that customers
rely on to manage their day-to-day business operations.

NEW BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT

    The Company actively pursues new business development through a dedicated
organization focused on developing new businesses aligned to the Company's
markets. This is accomplished by maintaining a long-term view on the industry's
potential and continually assessing the market. Key objectives are to identify
and close significant business development opportunities (mergers, acquisitions
and investments) that are aligned with the Company's strategic direction,
including hardware, software and services businesses that complement and augment
those of the Company, and to manage, develop and integrate such new businesses
into EMC.

MANUFACTURING AND QUALITY

    EMC's products are assembled and tested primarily at the Company's
facilities in Massachusetts, North Carolina and Cork, Ireland. Product
components manufactured by subcontractors in the United States and Europe are
assembled in accordance with production standards and quality controls
established by EMC. See "Properties."

    The Company employs a corporate-wide Total Quality Management philosophy to
ensure the quality of its designs, manufacturing processes and suppliers. The
Company's manufacturing operations in Massachusetts currently hold an ISO 9001
Certificate of Registration. This internationally recognized endorsement of
ongoing quality management represents the highest level of certification
available. The Company's manufacturing operations in Ireland currently hold an
ISO 9002 Certificate of Registration and ISO 14001 Environmental Management
Standard Certification. In addition, EMC sites in the United Kingdom, Italy,
France, Australia, New Zealand and South Africa hold ISO certifications.

RAW MATERIALS

    EMC's products utilize the Company's engineering designs, with industry
standard and semi-custom components and subsystems. Among the most important
components that EMC uses are disk drives, high density memory components and
power supplies. See "Factors that May Affect Future Results--If EMC's suppliers
do not meet its quality or delivery requirements, EMC could have decreased
revenues and earnings."

PATENTS

    EMC has been granted or owns by assignment approximately 500 patents. The
Company also has a number of patent applications pending relating to its
hardware and software products.

BACKLOG

    The Company manufactures its products on the basis of its forecast of
near-term demand and maintains inventory in advance of receipt of firm orders
from customers. Products are configured to customer specifications and are
generally shipped by the Company shortly after receipt of the order. Customers
may reschedule orders with little or no penalty. For these reasons, the
Company's backlog at any particular time is not meaningful because it is not
necessarily indicative of future sales levels.

                                       6
<PAGE>
COMPETITION

    In the Global 2000 and Internet markets, EMC competes primarily with
computer systems manufacturers. In the Company's opinion, these companies
compete based on their overall market presence and their ability to sell both
computer systems and storage systems.

    The Company believes that it has a number of competitive advantages over
these companies, including product, distribution and customer service. The
Company believes the advantages in its products include performance, capacity,
availability, connectivity, value-added software, time to market enhancements
and total value of ownership. The Company believes its advantages in
distribution include its direct sales force and its broad network of indirect
sales channels. The Company believes its advantages in customer service include
its ability to effectively monitor and provide service (which is often remote
and without interruption to a company's business) for its systems and software
24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year.

EMPLOYEES

    As of January 31, 2000, EMC had approximately 17,700 employees worldwide.
None of the Company's domestic employees is represented by a labor union, and
the Company has never suffered an interruption of business as a result of a
labor dispute. The Company considers its relations with its employees to be
good.

FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT SEGMENTS, FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT
  SALES

    The Company is active in three business segments: storage products; server
products; and services. Sales and marketing operations outside the United States
are conducted through sales subsidiaries and branches located principally in
Europe, Latin America and the Asia Pacific region. The Company has three primary
manufacturing facilities, one in Massachusetts, which provides Symmetrix
products to the North American markets, one in North Carolina, which
manufactures CLARiiON systems and AViiON servers, and one in Ireland which
manufactures Symmetrix systems and CLARiiON systems. Total exports, in millions,
from these facilities amounted to approximately $2,575, $2,184, and $1,884 in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. (See Note P to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements.)

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company's principal corporate offices are located at 35 Parkwood Drive,
Hopkinton, Massachusetts. As of December 31, 1999, the Company owned or leased a
total of approximately 4.5 million square feet of space worldwide which is used
primarily for manufacturing, research and development, customer service, sales,
marketing and general administration.

    The Company also owns and leases space for its sales and services offices
and for general administration worldwide, and owns land in the Hopkinton,
Massachusetts and Cork, Ireland areas for possible expansion purposes. The
Company believes its present level of manufacturing and other capacity, along
with its plans for expansion, will be sufficient to accommodate its
requirements.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is a party to certain litigation which it considers routine and
incidental to its business. Management does not expect the results of any of
these actions to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
results of operations or financial condition.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.

                                       7
<PAGE>
                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The executive officers of the Company are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   NAME                       AGE                       POSITION
- ------------------------------------------  --------   ------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>        <C>
Richard J. Egan...........................     64      Chairman of the Board of Directors
Michael C. Ruettgers......................     57      Chief Executive Officer and Director
Joseph M. Tucci...........................     52      President and Chief Operating Officer
Paul E. Noble, Jr.........................     44      Executive Vice President, Products and
                                                       Offerings
Michael A. Ruffolo........................     38      Executive Vice President, Global Sales,
                                                       Services and Marketing
Paul T. Dacier............................     42      Senior Vice President and General Counsel
David A. Donatelli........................     34      Senior Vice President, New Business
                                                       Development
Colin G. Patteson.........................     51      Senior Vice President, Chief
                                                       Administrative Officer and Treasurer
William J. Teuber, Jr.....................     48      Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
                                                       Officer
</TABLE>

    Richard J. Egan is a founder of the Company and has served as a Director of
the Company since its inception in 1979. He was elected Chairman of the Board of
the Company in January 1988. Prior to January 1988, he was also President of
EMC. From 1979 to January 1992, he was Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He is also a Director of Cognition Corporation, a CAD/CAM software supplier,
NSTAR, a public utility, and NetScout Systems, Inc., a provider of network and
application performance management solutions.

    Michael C. Ruettgers has been Chief Executive Officer of the Company since
January 1992. He has served as a Director of the Company since May 1992. Mr.
Ruettgers served as President of EMC from October 1989 to January 2000. He also
served as Executive Vice President, Operations of EMC from July 1988 to
October 1989, and as Chief Operating Officer of EMC from October 1989 to January
1992. Mr. Ruettgers is also a director of PerkinElmer Inc., a diversified
technology company.

    Joseph M. Tucci joined EMC in January 2000 as President and Chief Operating
Officer. Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Tucci served as Deputy Chief Executive
Officer of Getronics N.V., an information technology services company, from June
1999 through December 1999 and as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of Wang Laboratories, Inc. ("Wang"), an information technology services
company, from December 1993 until June 1999. Getronics acquired Wang in June
1999. Mr. Tucci joined Wang in 1990 as its Executive Vice President, Operations.

    Paul E. Noble, Jr. has been Executive Vice President, Products and Offerings
of the Company since September 1998. Mr. Noble has had a number of other
executive positions with EMC since 1987, including serving most recently as the
Senior Vice President, New Business Development of EMC.

    Michael A. Ruffolo joined EMC in January 2000 as Executive Vice President,
Global Sales, Services and Marketing. Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Ruffolo served
as President of the Document Solutions Group for Xerox Corporation, a document
processing company, from May 1998 through December 1999. Prior to joining Xerox,
Mr. Ruffolo held several positions at AT&T/NCR Corporation, a computer and
communications company, from 1988 to 1998, most recently as Vice President and
Chief Information Officer and Vice President of Worldwide Services.

    Paul T. Dacier has been Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the
Company since February 2000. Mr. Dacier served as Vice President and General
Counsel to EMC from February 1993 until February 2000 and also served as General
Counsel to EMC from March 1990 until February 1993.

                                       8
<PAGE>
Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Dacier was Senior Counsel, Corporate Operations at
Apollo Computer Inc., a computer manufacturer, from January 1987 to
January 1990.

    David A. Donatelli has been Senior Vice President, New Business Development
of the Company since February 2000. Mr. Donatelli served as Vice President, New
Business Development of EMC from April 1999 until February 2000 and has also had
a number of other executive positions with EMC since 1987, including serving
most recently as the Vice President, General Manager of the Company's EDM
business.

    Colin G. Patteson has been Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative
Officer and Treasurer of the Company since February 1997. Mr. Patteson served as
European Controller of EMC from January 1989 to March 1991, Corporate Controller
from March 1991 to February 1993, Vice President and Corporate Controller from
February 1993 to April 1995, and Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and
Treasurer from April 1995 to February 1997.

    William J. Teuber, Jr. has been Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of the Company since February 2000. Mr. Teuber served as Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company from February 1997 until February
2000. He also served as Vice President and Controller of the Company from
August 1995 to February 1997. From 1988 to August 1995, Mr. Teuber was a partner
at Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P., a predecessor to PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an
accounting firm.

                            ------------------------

    Richard J. Egan, Chairman of the Board of Directors, is the husband of
Maureen E. Egan, a Director of the Company. He is also the brother-in-law of W.
Paul Fitzgerald, a Director of the Company. W. Paul Fitzgerald is the brother of
Maureen E. Egan. John R. Egan, a Director of the Company, is the son of Richard
J. and Maureen E. Egan. Paul E. Noble, Jr., Executive Vice President, Products
and Offerings of the Company, is the nephew of Richard J. and Maureen E. Egan
and of W. Paul Fitzgerald.

                            ------------------------

    The President and Treasurer are elected annually to serve until the first
meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of
stockholders and until their successors are elected and qualified.

                            ------------------------

EMC(2), EMC, Celerra, Connectrix, Control Center, ManageSuite, EDM,
E-Infostructure, ESN, EMC Proven, InfoMover, MOSAIC:2000, PowerPath, Symmetrix,
SRDF, TimeFinder, VolumeLogix, CLARiiON and AViiON are either registered
trademarks or trademarks of the Company. Other trademarks and logos are either
registered trademarks or trademarks of their respective owners.

                                       9
<PAGE>
                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    EMC's common stock, $.01 par value (the "Common Stock"), began trading on
the over-the-counter market on April 4, 1986 under the NASDAQ symbol EMCS. On
March 22, 1988, the Company's stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange
(the "NYSE") under the symbol EMC.

    During the last five fiscal years, the following stock splits have been
effected in the form of a stock dividend:

    - a two-for-one stock split effective November 17, 1997, for stockholders of
      record on October 31, 1997; and

    - a two-for-one stock split effective May 28, 1999, for stockholders of
      record on May 14, 1999.

    The following table sets forth the range of high and low prices on the NYSE
for the past two years during the fiscal periods shown, adjusted to reflect the
effects of the November 17, 1997 and May 28, 1999 stock splits.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
FISCAL 1999                                              HIGH             LOW
- -----------                                         --------------   -------------
<S>                                                 <C>              <C>
First Quarter.....................................  $ 64 7/8         $43 1/2
Second Quarter....................................    67 7/16         47 3/4
Third Quarter.....................................    74 5/8          53 5/8
Fourth Quarter....................................   110 5/16         63

<CAPTION>
FISCAL 1998                                              HIGH             LOW
- -----------                                         --------------   -------------
<S>                                                 <C>              <C>
First Quarter.....................................  $ 19 11/32       $12 19/32
Second Quarter....................................    23 15/32        18
Third Quarter.....................................    30 15/16        22 1/4
Fourth Quarter....................................    42 1/2          22 19/32
</TABLE>

    As of January 31, 2000, there were approximately 10,700 holders of record of
Common Stock.

    The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common Stock. While subject
to periodic review, the current policy of its Board of Directors is to retain
all earnings primarily to provide funds for the continued growth of the Company.

                                       10
<PAGE>
ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA

               FIVE YEAR SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA(1)
                                EMC CORPORATION
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 30,
                                      1999            1998            1997            1996            1995
                                  -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                               <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>             <C>
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS:
  Revenues......................   $6,715,610      $5,436,158      $4,487,851      $3,616,746      $3,125,995
  Operating income(2)...........    1,241,094         834,267         716,958         539,039         376,242
  Net income(2).................    1,010,570         653,978         587,511         420,080         260,645
  Net income per weighted
    average share,
    basic(2)(3).................   $     0.98      $     0.64      $     0.59      $     0.45      $     0.29
  Net income per weighted
    average share,
    diluted(2)(3)...............   $     0.92      $     0.61      $     0.56      $     0.42      $     0.26
  Weighted average shares,
    basic(3)....................    1,030,551       1,015,371       1,001,016         939,337         912,955
  Weighted average shares,
    diluted(3)..................    1,109,532       1,094,215       1,065,484       1,010,159       1,007,304
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
  Working capital...............   $2,922,481      $2,825,000      $2,581,640      $1,597,486      $1,185,491
  Total assets..................    7,173,288       5,627,020       4,627,936       3,178,101       2,600,529
  Long-term obligations(4)......      686,609         751,646         771,204         339,232         397,879
  Stockholders' equity..........   $4,951,786      $3,728,990      $2,900,941      $1,978,025      $1,426,318
</TABLE>

- ------------------------

(1) The selected consolidated financial data for 1995-1998 has been restated for
    the effects of the acquisition of Data General on October 12, 1999, which
    was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests. The Company changed its fiscal
    year to a calendar year end basis beginning with the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 1996.

(2) In 1999, the Company incurred charges totaling $223,598 (pre-tax) which
    consists of restructuring, merger and asset impairment charges of $208,246
    included in operating expenses and other cost of sales charges of $15,352.
    Net income for the year ended December 31, 1999, adjusted to exclude the
    impact of the charges was $1,180,468 or $1.07 per diluted share. In 1998,
    the Company incurred charges totaling $135,000 consisting of $82,400 of
    restructuring charges and $52,600 of other cost of sales charges related to
    asset writedowns. Net income for the year ended December 31, 1998 adjusted
    to exclude the impact of the charges was $788,978 or $0.73 per diluted
    share.

(3) All share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect the stock
    splits effective November 17, 1997 and May 28, 1999 for all periods
    presented.

(4) Excludes current portion of long-term debt.

                                       11
<PAGE>
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    All historical financial information and analysis have been restated to
reflect the acquisition of Data General in October 1999, which was accounted for
as a pooling-of-interests.

    This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations ("MD&A") should be read in conjunction with "Factors that
May Affect Future Results" included herein. All dollar amounts in this MD&A are
in millions except per share amounts.

    The following table presents certain consolidated statement of operations
information stated as a percentage of total revenues.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                                          ---------------------------------------------
                                                          DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                              1999            1998            1997
                                                          -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
REVENUES
  Enterprise storage hardware...........................       59.7%           58.3%           55.6%
  Enterprise storage software...........................       12.2             8.2             4.0
  Enterprise switching products (McDATA)................        2.1             3.3             4.2
  CLARiiON storage products.............................        6.2             7.6            11.1
                                                             ------          ------          ------
  Total storage products revenue........................       80.2            77.4            74.9
  AViiON server products................................        8.9            12.0            14.7
  Services..............................................       10.9            10.6            10.4
                                                             ------          ------          ------
TOTAL REVENUE...........................................      100.0%          100.0%          100.0%

COST AND EXPENSES
  Cost of product sales.................................       41.0%           47.9%           51.6%
  Cost of service.......................................        7.5             7.3             6.6
  Research and development..............................        8.5             8.0             7.4
  Selling, general and administrative...................       21.4            20.0            18.4
  Restructuring, merger and other charges...............        3.1             1.5              --
                                                             ------          ------          ------
OPERATING INCOME........................................       18.5            15.3            16.0
  Investment income, interest expense and other income,
    net.................................................        1.7             1.5             1.1
                                                             ------          ------          ------
  Income before income taxes............................       20.2            16.8            17.1
  Provision for income taxes............................        5.2             4.8             4.0
                                                             ------          ------          ------
NET INCOME..............................................       15.0%           12.0%           13.1%
                                                             ======          ======          ======
</TABLE>

REVENUES

    Total revenues were $6,715.6, $5,436.2 and $4,487.9 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, representing increases of $1,279.4, or 24%, from 1998 to 1999, and
$948.3 or 21% from 1997 to 1998.

    Enterprise storage hardware revenues from products sold directly and through
OEMs and resellers were $4,006.5, $3,167.1 and $2,496.7 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, representing increases of $839.4, or 27%, from 1998 to 1999 and
$670.4, or 27%, from 1997 to 1998. The increase in enterprise systems revenues
was primarily due to the continued strong demand for the Company's Symmetrix
series of products. These products address the growing demand for
enterprise-wide storage solutions, allowing users to move, store and protect
mission critical information in UNIX, Windows NT and mainframe environments.

                                       12
<PAGE>
    Enterprise storage software revenues from products sold directly and through
OEMs and resellers were $821.7, $445.4 and $176.9 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, representing increases of $376.3, or 85%, from 1998 to 1999 and
$268.5, or 152%, from 1997 to 1998. The increase in software revenues was
primarily due to increased licenses of enterprise storage software on Symmetrix
systems, both newly shipped and already installed, and the successful
introduction of new and enhanced software products.

    Revenues from enterprise switching products sold directly by McDATA,
primarily the ESCON director series of products, were $142.8, $178.8 and $189.1
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, representing a decrease of $36.0, or 20%,
from 1998 to 1999 and a decrease of $10.3, or 5%, from 1997 to 1998. The
decreases from 1998 to 1999 and from 1997 to 1998 were primarily due to the
product transition from ESCON-based to fibre-channel-based directors. The
Company anticipates that revenues from ESCON directors will continue to decline.

    Revenues from the CLARiiON line of storage products, excluding related
service revenues, were $415.6, $413.9 and $499.4 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, representing an increase of $1.7, or 0.4%, from 1998 to 1999 and a
decrease of $85.5, or 17%, from 1997 to 1998. The increase in 1999 CLARiiON
revenues reflects an increase in direct sales offset by decreased sales volume
from indirect channels. The decrease in 1998 is primarily the result of a longer
than anticipated product transition from SCSI-based to fibre-based storage
products, and the resultant decrease in sales volume from indirect channels.

    Total storage products revenues were $5,386.7, $4,205.2 and $3,362.0 in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, representing an increase of $1,181.5, or 28%,
from 1998 to 1999 and an increase of $843.2, or 25%, from 1997 to 1998. The
increase in both periods is due primarily to sales of enterprise storage
hardware and software.

    Revenues from AViiON server products were $596.3, $655.6 and $660.6 in 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively, representing decreases of $59.3, or 9%, from 1998
to 1999 and $5.0, or 1%, from 1997 to 1998. The decrease in revenue from 1998 to
1999 was primarily the result of the closing of certain international sales
offices in an effort to refocus the business and improve profitability.

    Service revenues were $732.6, $575.3 and $465.3 in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively representing an increase of $157.3, or 27%, from 1998 to 1999 and
an increase of $110.0, or 24%, from 1997 to 1998. The increase in both periods
was primarily a result of the growth in EMC professional services and the
acquisitions of the professional services businesses Groupe MCI and Millennia
III, Inc. in the second and third quarters of 1998, respectively. In addition,
service revenues continue to grow as a result of the larger installed base
driven by increased product unit sales.

    Enterprise hardware and software revenues for 1999, 1998 and 1997 under the
Company's reseller agreement with Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") were $217.1,
$718.0 and $504.1, respectively, representing 3%, 13% and 11% of total revenues,
respectively. The Company and HP agreed to terminate their reseller contract for
enterprise storage products effective as of June 30, 1999. The Company also has
a reseller agreement with HP for CLARiiON and AViiON products, which represented
2%, 3% and 6% of revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

    Revenues on sales into the North American markets were $4,257.1, $3,367.8
and $2,708.2 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, representing increases of
$889.3, or 26%, from 1998 to 1999, and $659.6, or 24%, from 1997 to 1998. The
revenue growth reflects continued strong demand for the Company's products and
services.

    Revenues on sales into the markets of Europe, the Middle East and Africa
were $1,844.3, $1,597.6 and $1,323.2 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively,
representing increases of $246.7, or 15%, from 1998 to 1999, and $274.4, or 21%,
from 1997 to 1998. The reduced growth rate in 1999 reflects the impact of
closing certain Data General sales offices.

                                       13
<PAGE>
    Revenues on sales into the markets in the Asia Pacific region were $439.0,
$381.5 and $396.3 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, representing an increase
of $57.5, or 15%, from 1998 to 1999, and a decrease of $14.8, or 4%, from 1997
to 1998. The increase in 1999 was due to the Company's efforts to expand its
business in this region combined with strong demand for the Company's products
and services. The decrease in 1998 was principally attributable to a downturn in
economic trends in the Asia Pacific market.

    Revenues on sales into the markets of Latin America were $175.2, $89.2 and
$60.2 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively, representing increases of $86.0, or
96%, from 1998 to 1999 and $29.0, or 48%, from 1997 to 1998. The increase in
both periods was primarily due to the Company's efforts to expand its business
in this region combined with strong demand for the Company's products and
services.

GROSS MARGINS

    Overall gross margins increased to 51.5% in 1999, compared to 44.9% in 1998
and 41.8% in 1997. Product gross margins increased to 54.0% in 1999, compared to
46.5% in 1998 and 42.4% in 1997. The increase in product margins for both
periods is primarily attributable to increased licensing of the Company's
enterprise software products, which have higher gross margins than sales of the
Company's hardware products. Software revenue as a percentage of total revenues
increased to 12% in 1999 from 8% in 1998 and 4% in 1997. Other factors affecting
product gross margins include the impact of component cost declines being
greater than the impact of product price declines. The Company currently
believes that product price declines will continue.

    Service gross margins decreased to 30.8% in 1999, compared to 31.2% in 1998
and 36.5% in 1997. The decrease in service margins from 1998 to 1999 is
primarily due to a decrease in Data General service revenues caused by the
closure of certain international sales offices. The decrease in service margins
from 1997 to 1998 is primarily due to a significant investment in EMC
professional services during 1998.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

    Research and development ("R&D") expenses were $572.5, $435.3 and $332.1 in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. As a percentage of revenues, R&D expenses
were 9%, 8% and 7% in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The increase in R&D
spending levels from 1997 to 1998 and 1998 to 1999 reflects the Company's
ongoing research and development efforts in a variety of areas, including EMC
ESN technologies, network attached storage products, enhancements to the
Symmetrix family of products, new enterprise storage software products and fibre
channel connectivity. R&D for 1998 also includes costs associated with the
integration of Conley Corporation, acquired in August 1998, which became the EMC
Cambridge Software Development Center.

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE

    Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $1,435.5,
$1,087.7 and $826.4 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. As a percentage of
revenues, SG&A expenses were 21%, 20% and 18% in 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The increase in spending levels for both periods is primarily due
to the Company's efforts to build an infrastructure to achieve broader coverage
and greater account depth around the world and to expand its technical sales
organization to support the current and expected growth in software revenues. In
addition, during 1999, the Company increased its direct sales presence where it
previously relied upon resellers.

                                       14
<PAGE>
RESTRUCTURING, MERGER AND OTHER CHARGES

    During fiscal year 1999, the Company recorded a total charge of $223.6
related to restructuring, merger and other charges primarily related to the
acquisition of Data General. During 1998, the Company recorded charges totaling
$135.0 related to a restructuring program and other charges.

    During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company approved and implemented a
restructuring program in connection with its acquisition of Data General. The
restructuring plan, which is expected to be completed by December 2000, provides
for the consolidation of the Company's operations and elimination of duplicative
facilities worldwide. Accordingly, during 1999, the Company recorded a charge of
approximately $170.6 related to employee termination benefits, facility closure
costs, asset disposals and other exit costs which the Company has recorded in
operating expenses. The expected cash impact of the charge is approximately
$140.7 of which $52.4 was paid in 1999.

    The restructuring program includes an aggregate net reduction of the
workforce by approximately 1,100 employees, approximately 59% of whom are or
were based in North America and 23% of whom are or were based in Europe. The
employee separations affect the majority of business functions and job classes.
Of the approximately 1,100 employees identified, approximately 500 were
terminated in 1999.

    In 1999, the Company also recorded a charge for merger costs of $23.5 for
financial advisory services, legal, accounting and other direct expenses related
to the Data General acquisition which has been recorded in operating expenses.
In addition, the Company recorded a $14.1 charge related to asset impairments
recorded in operating expenses and recorded a charge of $15.4 for capitalized
software and inventory write-downs which is included in cost of product sales.

    In 1998, the Company recorded a charge of $135.0 related to a restructuring
program and certain asset write-downs resulting from the program. The charge
included approximately $82.4 related to employee termination benefits, asset
write downs and other exit costs which the Company has recorded in operating
expenses and approximately $52.6 for capitalized software and inventory write
downs which are included in cost of product sales. The total cash impact of the
restructuring charge is approximately $58.5, of which $24.4 was paid in 1998 and
$21.6 was paid in 1999. As of December 31, 1999, the remaining accruals of $15.7
from the 1998 restructuring program are primarily related to excess vacant
rental properties in Europe.

    The 1998 restructuring program included an aggregate net reduction of the
workforce by approximately 480 employees, approximately 65% of whom were based
in North America and the remainder of whom were based in Europe and the Asia
Pacific region. The employee separations affected the majority of business
functions and job classes. Of the 480 employees identified, approximately 400
were terminated during 1998 and 80 were terminated in 1999.

                                       15
<PAGE>
    The amounts accrued and charged against the established provisions described
above were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                BEGINNING   CURRENT YEAR   CURRENT YEAR
                                                 BALANCE     PROVISION     UTILIZATION    ENDING BALANCE
                                                ---------   ------------   ------------   --------------
<S>                                             <C>         <C>            <C>            <C>
1999
Employee termination benefits.................    $21.4        $121.5         $ 67.4          $ 75.5
Lease abandonments............................     13.3          11.2            5.9            18.6
Asset disposals...............................      5.7          17.9           19.5             4.1
Other exit costs..............................      3.1          20.0           11.9            11.2
                                                  -----        ------         ------          ------
                                                  $43.5        $170.6         $104.7          $109.4
                                                  =====        ======         ======          ======
1998
Employee termination benefits.................    $  --        $ 43.7         $ 22.3          $ 21.4
Lease abandonments............................      6.5          11.3            4.5            13.3
Asset disposals...............................       --          19.9           14.2             5.7
Other exit costs..............................       --           7.5            4.4             3.1
                                                  -----        ------         ------          ------
                                                  $ 6.5        $ 82.4         $ 45.4          $ 43.5
                                                  =====        ======         ======          ======
</TABLE>

INVESTMENT INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENSE

    Investment income increased to $131.9 in 1999, from $114.4 in 1998 and $82.6
in 1997. Investment income was earned primarily from investments in cash
equivalents and short and long-term investments. Investment income increased in
1999 and 1998 primarily due to higher average cash and investment balances which
were derived from operations.

    Interest expense decreased to $33.5 in 1999 from $34.8 in 1998. Interest
expense increased to $34.8 in 1998 from $31.3 in 1997. The decrease in 1999 from
1998 is primarily due to conversions of the 3 1/4% Convertible Subordinated
Notes due 2002 of the Company (the "3 1/4% Notes") to Common Stock. The increase
in 1998 from 1997 was primarily due to the issuance of the 3 1/4% Notes and the
6% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2004 of the Company (the "6% Notes").

OTHER INCOME/(EXPENSE), NET

    The net other income was $17.7 in 1999 compared with the net other income of
$0.4 in 1998 and $1.1 in 1997. The increase in the net other income from 1998 to
1999 is primarily attributable to gains on the sale of publicly traded
securities acquired as part of the Data General acquisition.

PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES

    The provision for income taxes was $346.6 in 1999, $260.3 in 1998 and $181.8
in 1997, which resulted in effective tax rates of 25.5%, 28.5% and 23.6% in
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The effective tax rates in 1999, 1998, and
1997 were lower than the statutory federal rate (35%) due primarily to the
realization of the benefits of the Company's global tax strategies and the
benefits derived from its offshore manufacturing operations. The major impact of
the Data General acquisition to the tax provision under the pooling of interest
method of acquisition accounting was a reduction in the valuation reserve
formerly recorded for certain Data General net operating loss carryforwards and
the non-deductibility of certain restructuring charges. The Company anticipates
that the effective tax rate for fiscal 2000 will be approximately 27%.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

    Cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term investments were $3,173.7
and $2,380.3 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, an increase of $793.4.
In 1999, cash and cash equivalents

                                       16
<PAGE>
increased by $273.9 and short and long-term investments increased by $519.5.
This reflects the Company's continued efforts to invest excess cash in short and
long-term investments, which generate a higher yield than cash and cash
equivalents.

    Cash provided by operating activities was $1,371.6. This was primarily
generated from net income offset by an increase in working capital, primarily
attributable to an increase in accounts receivable, consistent with the growth
of the business. Cash used by investing activities was $1,170.9, principally for
purchases of investments and additions to property, plant and equipment.

    Cash provided by financing activities was $73.2, principally from the
issuance of Common Stock from stock option exercises.

    The Company has available for use a credit line of $50.0 and may elect to
borrow at any time. In March 1997, the Company sold $517.5 of the 3 1/4% Notes.
The 3 1/4% Notes are generally convertible into shares of Common Stock at any
time prior to the redemption date at a conversion price of $11.33 per share. As
of December 31, 1999, $57.1 of the 3 1/4% Notes have been converted into Common
Stock. On February 15, 2000, the Company announced that it would redeem all of
the outstanding 3 1/4% Notes on March 15, 2000; however, the Company believes
that substantially all of the outstanding 3 1/4% Notes were converted into
Common Stock on or prior to such date. In May 1997, the Company sold $212.8 of
the 6% Notes. The 6% Notes are generally convertible into shares of common stock
at a conversion price of $83.82 per share, subject to adjustment in certain
events. As of December 31, 1999, none of the 6% Notes have been converted into
Common Stock. Based on its current operating and capital expenditure forecasts,
the Company believes that the combination of funds currently available, funds
generated from operations and its available line of credit will be adequate to
finance its ongoing operations.

    To date, inflation has not had a material impact on the Company's financial
results.

                                       17
<PAGE>
FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

    The Company's prospects are subject to certain uncertainties and risks. This
Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains certain forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. The Company's future results
may differ materially from its current results and actual results could differ
materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of
certain risk factors, including but not limited to those set forth below, other
one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time
to time in EMC's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

IF EMC'S SUPPLIERS DO NOT MEET ITS QUALITY OR DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS, EMC COULD
  HAVE DECREASED REVENUES AND EARNINGS.

    EMC purchases several sophisticated components and products from one or a
limited number of qualified suppliers, including some of its competitors. These
components and products include disk drives, high density memory components and
power supplies. EMC has experienced delivery delays from time to time because of
high industry demand or the inability of some vendors to consistently meet its
quality and delivery requirements. If any of its suppliers were to fail to meet
the quality or delivery requirements needed to satisfy customer orders for its
products, EMC could lose time-sensitive customer orders and have significantly
decreased quarterly revenues and earnings, which would have a material adverse
effect on EMC's business, results of operations or financial condition.

    Additionally, EMC periodically transitions its product line to incorporate
new technologies. The importance of transitioning its customers smoothly to new
technologies, along with its historically uneven pattern of quarterly sales,
intensifies the risk that a supplier who fails to meet its delivery or quality
requirements will have an adverse impact on EMC's revenues and earnings.

EMC MAY BE UNABLE TO KEEP PACE WITH RAPID INDUSTRY CHANGES.

    The computer storage and server markets are characterized by rapid
technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry
standards. Sales of the Symmetrix series of products constitute the principal
source of revenues for EMC and EMC expects these sales to continue to be the
principal source of its revenues in the near future. Customer preferences in
these markets are difficult to predict, however, and there can be no assurance
that the Symmetrix series or other of the Company's products will continue to be
properly positioned in the market or to receive customer acceptance. In
addition, as a significant number of EMC's products are designed to be fully
compatible with the computers and operating systems of IBM and others, EMC's
business could also be adversely affected by modifications in the design or
configuration of these computers and operating systems.

    Risks inherent in the transition to new products include the difficulty in
forecasting customer demand accurately, the inability to expand production
capacity to meet demand for new products, the impact of customers' demand for
new products on the products being replaced and delays in initial shipments of
new products. Further risks inherent in new product introductions include the
uncertainty of price-performance relative to products of competitors,
competitors' responses to the introductions and the desire by customers to
evaluate new products for longer periods of time. There can be no assurance that
EMC will be able to effectively manage the transitions to new products or new
technologies.

THE MARKETS EMC SERVES ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE, AND EMC MAY BE UNABLE TO COMPETE
  EFFECTIVELY.

    EMC competes with many established companies in the computer storage and
server industries and certain of these companies have substantially greater
financial, marketing and technological resources, larger distribution
capabilities, earlier access to customers and more opportunity to address

                                       18
<PAGE>
customers' various information technology requirements than EMC. EMC's business
may be adversely affected by the announcement or introduction of new products by
its competitors, including hardware, software and services, price reductions of
its competitors' equipment or services and the implementation of effective
marketing strategies by its competitors.

COMPETITIVE PRICING COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT EMC'S REVENUES AND EARNINGS.

    Competitive pricing pressures exist in the computer storage and server
markets and have had and may in the future have an adverse effect on EMC's
revenues and earnings. There also has been and may continue to be a willingness
on the part of certain competitors to reduce prices in order to preserve or gain
market share, which EMC cannot foresee. EMC currently believes that pricing
pressures are likely to continue.

    To date, EMC has been able to manage its component and product design costs.
However, there can be no assurance that EMC will be able to continue to achieve
reductions in component and product design costs. The relative and varying rates
of product price and component cost declines could have an adverse effect on
EMC's earnings.

CHANGES IN FOREIGN LAWS, RULES OR REGULATIONS OR OTHER CONDITIONS COULD IMPAIR
  EMC'S INTERNATIONAL SALES.

    A substantial portion of EMC's revenues is derived from sales outside the
United States. In addition, a substantial portion of EMC's products is
manufactured outside of the United States. Accordingly, EMC's future results
could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in
foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a specific country's or region's
political or economic conditions, trade restrictions, import or export licensing
requirements, the overlap of different tax structures or changes in
international tax laws, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a
variety of foreign laws and regulations and longer payment cycles in certain
countries.

RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EMC'S INDIRECT CHANNELS OF DISTRIBUTION MAY ADVERSELY
  AFFECT EMC'S FINANCIAL RESULTS.

    EMC derives a significant percentage of its product revenues from indirect
channels of distribution, including resellers, systems integrators and
distributors. EMC's financial results could be adversely affected if its
contracts with its indirect channels of distribution were terminated, if EMC's
relationship with its indirect channels were to deteriorate or if the financial
condition of its indirect channels were to weaken. In addition, as EMC's
business grows, EMC may have an increased reliance on indirect channels of
distribution. There can be no assurance that EMC will be successful in
maintaining or expanding these channels. If EMC is not successful, EMC may lose
certain sales opportunities. Furthermore, the partial reliance on indirect
channels of distribution may materially reduce the visibility to management of
potential orders, thereby making it more difficult to accurately forecast such
orders. In addition, there can be no assurance that indirect channels will not
develop or market products in competition with EMC in the future.

HISTORICALLY UNEVEN SALES PATTERNS COULD SIGNIFICANTLY IMPACT QUARTERLY REVENUES
  AND EARNINGS.

    EMC's quarterly sales have historically reflected an uneven pattern in which
a disproportionate percentage of a quarter's total sales occur in the last month
and weeks and days of each quarter. This pattern makes prediction of revenues,
earnings and working capital for each financial period especially difficult and
uncertain and increases the risk of unanticipated variations in quarterly
results and financial condition. EMC believes this uneven sales pattern is a
result of many factors including:

                                       19
<PAGE>
    - the significant size of EMC's average product price in relation to its
      customers' budgets, resulting in long lead times for customers' budgetary
      approval, which tends to be given late in a quarter

    - the tendency of customers to wait until late in a quarter to commit to
      purchase in the hope of obtaining more favorable pricing from one or more
      competitors seeking their business

    - the fourth quarter influence of customers spending their remaining capital
      budget authorization prior to new budget constraints in the first quarter
      of the following year

    - seasonal influences

    EMC's uneven sales pattern also makes it extremely difficult to predict
near-term demand and adjust manufacturing capacity accordingly. If orders vary
substantially from the predicted demand, the ability to assemble, test and ship
orders received in the last weeks and days of each quarter may be limited, which
could adversely affect quarterly revenues and earnings.

    In addition, EMC's revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on
orders booked and shipped in that quarter, and its backlog at any particular
time is not necessarily indicative of future sales levels. This is because:

    - EMC manufactures its products on the basis of its forecast of near-term
      demand and maintains inventory in advance of receipt of firm orders from
      customers

    - EMC generally ships products shortly after receipt of the order

    - customers may reschedule orders with little or no penalty

    Moreover, delays in product shipping, caused by loss of power or
telecommunications or similar services, or an unexpected decline in revenues
without a corresponding and timely slowdown in expenses, could intensify the
impact of these factors on EMC's business, results of operations and financial
condition.

EMC MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY SUSTAINING AND MANAGING ITS GROWTH.

    EMC has a history of rapid growth. EMC's future operating results will
depend on its management's ability to manage growth, including, but not limited
to, hiring and retaining significant numbers of qualified employees, forecasting
revenues, controlling expenses and managing its manufacturing capacity and other
assets and executing on its plans. An unexpected decline in the growth rate of
revenues without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense growth or a
failure to manage other aspects of growth could have a material adverse effect
on EMC's business, results of operations or financial condition.

    In addition, EMC's growth requires enhancement and expansion of its
infrastructure, including its management team, information systems and
manufacturing operations. The Company's continued success and profitability
depends on its ability to continue to improve its infrastructure to keep pace
with the growth in its overall business.

EMC'S BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF IT IS UNABLE TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL.

    EMC's continued growth and success depends to a significant extent on the
continued service of senior management and other key employees, the development
of additional management personnel and the hiring of new qualified employees.
Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense in the high technology
industry. There can be no assurance that EMC will be successful in continuously
recruiting new personnel or in retaining existing personnel. The loss of one or
more key or other employees or EMC's inability to attract additional qualified
employees or retain other employees could have a material adverse effect on
EMC's business, results of operations or financial condition.

                                       20
<PAGE>
MANUFACTURING RISKS COULD DIRECTLY IMPAIR EMC'S FINANCIAL RESULTS.

    EMC's products operate near the limits of electronic and physical
performance and are designed and manufactured with relatively small tolerances.
If flaws in design, production, assembly or testing were to occur by EMC or its
suppliers, EMC could experience a rate of failure in its products that would
result in substantial repair or replacement costs and potential damage to EMC's
reputation. Continued improvement in manufacturing capabilities and control of
material and manufacturing quality and costs are critical factors in the future
growth of EMC. EMC frequently revises and updates manufacturing and test
processes to address engineering and component changes to its products and
evaluates the reallocation of manufacturing resources among its facilities.
There can be no assurance that EMC's efforts to monitor, develop and implement
appropriate test and manufacturing processes for its products will be sufficient
to permit EMC to avoid a rate of failure in its products that results in
substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement costs and
potential damage to EMC's reputation, any of which could have a material adverse
effect on EMC's business, results of operations or financial condition.

EMC'S BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED AS A RESULT OF THE RISKS
  ASSOCIATED WITH ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS.

    As part of its business strategy, EMC seeks to acquire businesses that offer
complementary products, services or technologies. These acquisitions are
accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in an acquisition of a business
including, among other things:

    - the effect of the acquisition on EMC's financial and strategic position
      and reputation

    - the failure of an acquired business to further EMC's strategies

    - the difficulty of integrating the acquired business

    - the lack of experience in new markets, products or technologies

    - the diversion of EMC's management's attention from other business concerns

    - the impairment of relationships with customers of the acquired business

    - the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company

    - the implementation and maintenance of uniform company-wide standards,
      procedures and policies

    - the potential incompatibility of business cultures

    These factors could have a material adverse effect on EMC's business,
results of operations or financial condition. EMC expects that the consideration
paid for future acquisitions, if any, could be in the form of cash, stock,
rights to purchase stock or a combination of these. To the extent that EMC
issues shares of stock or other rights to purchase stock in connection with any
future acquisition, existing stockholders will experience dilution and
potentially decreased earnings per share.

    EMC also seeks to invest in businesses that offer complementary products,
services or technologies. These investments are accompanied by risks similar to
those encountered in an acquisition of a business.

EMC'S BUSINESS COULD BE MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECTED AS A RESULT OF THE RISKS
  ASSOCIATED WITH ALLIANCES.

    EMC has alliances with leading software, relational database and enterprise
application companies, and EMC plans to continue its strategy of developing key
alliances. EMC works with these companies to integrate its products with their
software applications. There can be no assurance that EMC will be

                                       21
<PAGE>
successful in its ongoing strategic alliances or that EMC will be able to find
further suitable business relationships as it develops new products. Any failure
to continue or expand such relationships could have a material adverse effect on
EMC's business, results of operations or financial condition.

    There can be no assurance that companies with which EMC has strategic
alliances, certain of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and
technological resources than EMC, will not develop or market products in
competition with EMC in the future, discontinue their alliances with EMC or form
alliances with EMC's competitors.

EMC'S BUSINESS MAY SUFFER IF IT CANNOT PROTECT ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.

    EMC generally relies upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws
and contract rights in the United States and in other countries to establish and
maintain EMC's proprietary rights in its technology and products. However, there
can be no assurance that any of EMC's proprietary rights will not be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented. In addition, the laws of certain countries do not
protect EMC's proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United
States. Therefore, there can be no assurance that EMC will be able to adequately
protect its proprietary technology against unauthorized third-party copying or
use, which could adversely affect EMC's competitive position. Further, there can
be no assurance that EMC will be able to obtain licenses to any technology that
it may require to conduct its business or that, if obtainable, such technology
can be licensed at a reasonable cost.

    From time to time, EMC receives notices from third parties claiming
infringement by EMC's products of third-party patent or other intellectual
property rights. Responding to any such claim, regardless of its merit, could be
time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management's attention and
resources and cause EMC to incur significant expenses. In the event there is a
temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting EMC from marketing or
selling certain of its products or a successful claim of infringement against
EMC requiring EMC to pay royalties to a third party, and EMC fails to develop or
license a substitute technology, EMC's business, results of operations or
financial condition could be materially adversely affected.

YEAR 2000 PROBLEMS MAY DISRUPT EMC'S BUSINESS.

    The information provided below constitutes a "Year 2000 Readiness
Disclosure" under the Year 2000 Information and Readiness Disclosure Act.

    In February 1997, EMC established a Year 2000 program to address systems and
software problems in interpreting certain dates in calendar year 2000. Under
this program, EMC completed, prior to January 1, 2000, an assessment of the
hardware and software in its business information systems and completed the
necessary modifications. To date, EMC has not experienced, and is not aware of,
any Year 2000 problems or disruptions in its internal systems; however, EMC
cannot, at this time, be assured that any such problems or disruptions, if they
were to occur, would not have a material impact on EMC's business, results of
operations or financial condition.

    Under its Year 2000 program, EMC sought and has received certifications of
Year 2000 compliance from all of its key vendors and suppliers. EMC has also
received certifications or statements of Year 2000 compliance from other vendors
and suppliers and has assessed questionnaire responses and related information
from other third parties. To date, EMC has not received any notification from
any of its key vendors, suppliers or other third parties of any Year 2000
problems or disruptions; however, EMC cannot, at this time, be assured that Year
2000 problems of third parties will not have a material impact on EMC's
business, results of operations or financial condition.

    EMC has designed and tested the current versions of its Symmetrix series of
products and the current versions of its other products to be Year 2000
compliant. EMC has made upgrades available for

                                       22
<PAGE>
the older versions of its Symmetrix series of products and for certain other of
its older products that have not been tested for Year 2000 compliance so that
such products will test as Year 2000 compliant. EMC's CLARiiON storage products
and AViiON servers test as Year 2000 ready or EMC has made upgrades available to
make such products test as Year 2000 ready. There can be no assurance that Year
2000 problems in EMC's products, if they were to occur, would not have a
material impact on EMC's business, results of operations or financial condition.

    The assessment, remediation, testing and contingency planning phases of
EMC's Year 2000 program are complete. The total cost of such program has not
had, and EMC does not anticipate that the total cost of such program will have,
a material effect on its business, results of operations or financial condition.

    The most reasonably likely worst case scenarios regarding failures to
interpret certain dates in calendar Year 2000 would include a hardware failure,
the corruption or loss of data contained in EMC's internal information systems,
a failure affecting EMC's key vendors, suppliers or customers, the failure of
infrastructure services provided by government agencies or other third parties,
and customer dissatisfaction related to the performance of EMC's products.

    Under its program, EMC developed a Year 2000 contingency plan. This
contingency plan includes, among other things, manual "work-arounds" for
hardware and software failures, as well as substitution of systems, if required.

    Further information about EMC's Year 2000 readiness is available at the
Company's website at HTTP://WWW.EMC.COM/YEAR2000.

LITIGATION THAT EMC MAY BECOME INVOLVED IN MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT EMC.

    In the ordinary course of business, EMC may become involved in litigation,
administrative proceedings and governmental proceedings. Such matters can be
time-consuming, divert management's attention and resources and cause EMC to
incur significant expenses. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the
results of any of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on its
business, results of operations or financial condition.

CHANGES IN REGULATIONS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT EMC.

    EMC's business, results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected if laws, regulations or standards relating to EMC or its
products were newly implemented or changed.

EMC'S STOCK PRICE IS VOLATILE.

    EMC's stock price, like that of other technology companies, is subject to
significant volatility because of factors such as:

    - the announcement of new products, services or technological innovations by
      EMC or its competitors

    - quarterly variations in its operating results

    - changes in revenue or earnings estimates by the investment community

    - speculation in the press or investment community

    In addition, EMC's stock price may be affected by general market conditions
and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to EMC's performance.
Because of these factors, recent trends should not be considered reliable
indicators of future stock prices or financial results.

                                       23
<PAGE>
ITEM 7A:  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

MARKET RISK

    The Company is exposed to market risk, primarily from changes in interest
rates, foreign exchange rates and credit risk. To manage the volatility relating
to these exposures, the Company enters into various derivative transactions
pursuant to the Company's policies to hedge against known or forecasted market
exposures.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT

    As a multinational corporation, the Company is exposed to changes in foreign
exchange rates. These exposures may change over time and could have a material
adverse impact on our financial results. Historically, the Company's primary
exposures related to sales denominated in the Euro, the Japanese yen and the
British pound. Additionally, the Company's exposure to emerging market
economies, particularly in Latin America and South East Asia, has recently
increased because of its expanding presence in these markets. Despite the
relative size of the Company's exposures in these markets, the inherent
volatility of these economies could negatively impact the Company's financial
results.

    The Company uses foreign currency forward and option contracts to manage the
risk of exchange rate fluctuations. In all cases, the Company uses these
derivative instruments to reduce its foreign exchange risk by essentially
creating offsetting market exposures. The instruments held by the Company are
not leveraged and are not held for trading or speculative purposes.

    The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its net asset position
and uses a combination of option and forward contracts to hedge anticipated cash
flows. The hedging activity is intended to offset the impact of currency
fluctuations on assets, liabilities and cash flows denominated in foreign
currencies. The success of the hedging program depends on forecasts of
transaction activity in the various currencies. To the extent that these
forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility,
the Company could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses.

    The Company employs a variance/covariance model to calculate value-at-risk
for its combined foreign exchange position. This model assumes that the
relationships among market rates and prices that have been observed over the
last year are valid for estimating risk over the next trading day. Estimates of
volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics
dataset as of December 31, 1999. This model measures the potential loss in fair
value that could arise from changes in market conditions, using a 95% confidence
level and assuming a one-day holding period. The value-at-risk on the combined
foreign exchange position was $0.4 million as of December 31, 1999.

INTEREST RATE RISK

    The Company maintains an investment portfolio consisting of debt securities
of various issuers, types and maturities. The investments are classified as
available for sale and all are denominated in U.S. dollars. These securities are
recorded on the balance sheet at market value, with any unrealized gain or loss
recorded in other comprehensive income/(loss). These instruments are not
leveraged, and are not held for trading purposes. A portion of the Company's
investment portfolio is comprised of mortgage-backed securities which are
subject to prepayment risk.

    The Company employs a variance/covariance model to calculate value-at-risk
for its combined investment portfolios. This model assumes that the
relationships among market rates and prices that have been observed over the
last year are valid for estimating risk over the next trading day. Estimates of
volatility and correlations of market factors are drawn from the RiskMetrics
dataset as of December 31, 1999. This model measures the potential loss in fair
value that could arise from changes

                                       24
<PAGE>
in market conditions, using a 95% confidence level and assuming a one day
holding period. The value at risk on the investment portfolios was $2.2 million
as of December 31, 1999.

CREDIT RISK

    Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments,
short and long-term investments and trade and notes receivable. The Company
places its temporary cash investments and short and long-term investments in
investment grade instruments and limits the amount of investment with any one
financial institution. The credit risk associated with trade receivables is
minimal due to the large number of customers and their broad dispersion over
many different industries and geographic areas.

                                       25
<PAGE>
                        EMC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
                  COVERED BY REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              FORM 10-K
                                                              ----------
<S>                                                           <C>
Report of Independent Accountants...........................      p. 27

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1999 and 1998...      p. 28

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended
  December 31, 1999, 1998
  and 1997..................................................      p. 29

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
  December 31, 1999, 1998
  and 1997..................................................      p. 30

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for
  the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..........      p. 31

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for
  the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997..........      p. 32

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements..................  pp. 33-58

Schedule:

  Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts............     p. S-1
</TABLE>

Note:  All other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not
       applicable or the required information is included in the consolidated
       financial statements or notes thereto.

                                       26
<PAGE>
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Stockholders and the

Board of Directors of EMC Corporation:

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the
accompanying index on page 26 present fairly in all material respects, the
financial position of EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 1999
and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of
the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, in
our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index
appearing under item 14(a)(2) presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and the financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of
these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States, which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

                                          PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
January 21, 2000

                                       27
<PAGE>
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                                EMC CORPORATION
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                                  1999            1998
                                                              -------------   -------------
<S>                                                           <C>             <C>
                           ASSETS
Current assets:
  Cash and cash equivalents.................................   $1,109,409      $  835,466
  Short-term investments....................................      714,730         982,482
  Trade and notes receivable less allowance for doubtful
    accounts of
    $34,279 and $26,755 in 1999 and 1998, respectively......    1,625,438       1,292,790
  Inventories...............................................      618,885         620,025
  Deferred income taxes.....................................      147,471          49,682
  Other assets..............................................      104,463          85,570
                                                               ----------      ----------
Total current assets........................................    4,320,396       3,866,015
Long-term investments.......................................    1,349,599         562,360
Notes receivable, net.......................................       76,756          34,870
Property, plant and equipment, net..........................    1,023,179         823,160
Deferred income taxes.......................................      108,587          26,561
Intangible and other assets, net............................      294,771         314,054
                                                               ----------      ----------
    Total assets............................................   $7,173,288      $5,627,020
                                                               ==========      ==========
            LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
  Current portion of long-term obligations..................   $    9,116      $   29,361
  Accounts payable..........................................      370,055         299,412
  Accrued expenses..........................................      611,052         457,122
  Income taxes payable......................................      249,234         160,792
  Deferred revenue..........................................      158,458          94,328
                                                               ----------      ----------
Total current liabilities...................................    1,397,915       1,041,015
Deferred income taxes.......................................      125,353          75,290
Long-term obligations:
  3 1/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2002............      460,399         517,500
  6% convertible subordinated notes due 2004................      212,750         212,750
  Notes payable.............................................       13,460          21,396
Other liabilities...........................................       11,625          30,079
                                                               ----------      ----------
    Total liabilities.......................................    2,221,502       1,898,030
                                                               ----------      ----------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
  Series Preferred Stock, par value $.01; authorized 25,000
    shares; none outstanding................................           --              --
  Common Stock, par value $.01; authorized 3,000,000 shares;
    issued and outstanding 1,039,275 and 1,022,952 in 1999
    and 1998, respectively..................................       10,393          10,230
  Additional paid-in capital................................    1,706,387       1,479,823
  Deferred compensation.....................................      (30,282)        (36,516)
  Retained earnings.........................................    3,299,821       2,289,251
  Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).............      (34,533)         (7,890)
                                                               ----------      ----------
    Subtotal................................................    4,951,786       3,734,898
  Treasury stock............................................           --          (5,908)
                                                               ----------      ----------
      Total stockholders' equity............................    4,951,786       3,728,990
                                                               ----------      ----------
        Total liabilities and stockholders' equity..........   $7,173,288      $5,627,020
                                                               ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       28
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                          ---------------------------------------------
                                                          DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                              1999            1998            1997
                                                          -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
Revenues:
  Net sales.............................................   $5,983,009      $4,860,838      $4,022,584
  Services..............................................      732,601         575,320         465,267
                                                           ----------      ----------      ----------
                                                            6,715,610       5,436,158       4,487,851
Costs and expenses:
  Cost of sales.........................................    2,751,360       2,600,405       2,317,189
  Cost of service.......................................      506,885         395,995         295,269
  Research and development..............................      572,517         435,344         332,078
  Selling, general and administrative...................    1,435,508       1,087,747         826,357
  Restructuring, merger and other charges...............      208,246          82,400              --
                                                           ----------      ----------      ----------
Operating income........................................    1,241,094         834,267         716,958
Investment income.......................................      131,911         114,355          82,582
Interest expense........................................      (33,490)        (34,786)        (31,302)
Other income/(expense), net.............................       17,650             397           1,082
                                                           ----------      ----------      ----------
Income before taxes.....................................    1,357,165         914,233         769,320
Income tax provision....................................      346,595         260,255         181,809
                                                           ----------      ----------      ----------
Net income..............................................   $1,010,570      $  653,978      $  587,511
                                                           ==========      ==========      ==========
Net income per weighted average share, basic............   $     0.98      $     0.64      $     0.59
                                                           ==========      ==========      ==========
Net income per weighted average share, diluted..........   $     0.92      $     0.61      $     0.56
                                                           ==========      ==========      ==========
Weighted average shares, basic..........................    1,030,551       1,015,371       1,001,016
Weighted average shares, diluted........................    1,109,532       1,094,215       1,065,484
</TABLE>

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       29
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                          ---------------------------------------------
                                                          DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                              1999            1998            1997
                                                          -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income............................................   $ 1,010,570     $   653,978     $  587,511
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash
    provided/ (used) by operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization.......................       447,114         366,403        241,789
    Deferred income taxes...............................      (122,973)           (615)         8,538
    Net loss on disposal of property and equipment......         9,896           9,073         10,432
    Tax benefit from stock options exercised............        58,033          43,670         18,540
    Minority interest...................................           135            (499)          (337)
    Changes in assets and liabilities:
      Trade and notes receivable........................      (383,547)       (212,988)      (197,895)
      Inventories.......................................        12,483         (18,671)      (120,109)
      Other assets......................................       (49,789)        (13,250)       (57,916)
      Accounts payable..................................        70,798         (45,383)        42,771
      Accrued expenses..................................       158,191         145,396         13,049
      Income taxes payable..............................        88,442          15,978         46,063
      Deferred revenue..................................        67,116          34,394            458
      Other liabilities.................................         5,166          (6,816)        (3,842)
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
        Net cash provided by operating activities.......     1,371,635         970,670        589,052
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property, plant and equipment............      (524,279)       (484,708)      (328,669)
  Proceeds from sales of property and equipment.........             1               6            313
  Capitalized software development costs................       (88,201)        (71,689)       (66,010)
  Purchase of short and long-term held-to-maturity
    securities..........................................      (191,254)     (1,100,361)      (904,308)
  Maturity of short and long-term held-to-maturity
    securities..........................................       940,483       1,016,607        669,198
  Purchase of short and long-term available for sale
    securities..........................................    (2,752,925)     (1,758,564)      (192,818)
  Sales of short and long-term available for sale
    securities..........................................     1,445,237       1,157,077          2,590
  Business acquisitions.................................            --         (53,903)            --
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
        Net cash used by investing activities...........    (1,170,938)     (1,295,535)      (819,704)
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Issuance of common stock..............................       101,424          64,269         50,928
  Redemption of 4 1/4% convertible subordinated notes
    due 2001............................................            --              --            (65)
  Proceeds from investment in new McDATA................            --              --         10,000
  Issuance of convertible subordinated notes, net of
    issuance costs......................................            --              --        713,524
  Payment of long-term and short-term obligations.......       (30,435)        (12,413)       (36,754)
  Issuance of long-term and short-term obligations......         2,256          14,553          4,732
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
        Net cash provided by financing activities.......        73,245          66,409        742,365
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash.................             1          (2,020)        (8,039)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents....       273,942        (258,456)       511,713
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period........       835,466       1,095,942        592,268
                                                           -----------     -----------     ----------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period..............   $ 1,109,409     $   835,466     $1,095,942
                                                           ===========     ===========     ==========
Non-cash activity--conversions of debentures and
  notes.................................................   $    57,101              --     $  140,682
                --business acquisitions.................            --     $    51,755             --
</TABLE>

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       30
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                            ---------------------------------------------------------------
                                COMMON STOCK
                            ---------------------
                                                    ADDITIONAL
                                           PAR       PAID-IN       DEFERRED       RETAINED
                              SHARES      VALUE      CAPITAL     COMPENSATION     EARNINGS
                            ----------   --------   ----------   -------------   ----------
<S>                         <C>          <C>        <C>          <C>             <C>
Balance, December 31,
  1996....................     965,463   $ 9,655    $ 935,479      $(17,512)     $1,047,762
  Exercise of stock
    options...............      12,615       126       50,802            --             --
  Tax benefit from stock
    options exercised.....          --        --       18,540            --             --
  Grant of stock
    options...............          --        --       20,778       (20,778)            --
  Issuance of common stock
    pursuant to
    conversions of
    notes.................      30,792       308      265,474            --             --
  Amortization of deferred
    compensation..........          --        --           --         8,678             --
  Treasury stock
    transactions..........          --        --         (579)           --             --
  Proceeds in excess of
    minority interest in
    new McDATA............          --        --        6,625            --             --
  Unrealized gain/(loss)
    on investments........          --        --           --            --             --
  Translation
    adjustment............          --        --           --            --             --
  Net income..............          --        --           --            --        587,511
                            ----------   -------    ----------     --------      ----------
Balance, December 31,
  1997....................   1,008,870    10,089    1,297,119       (29,612)     1,635,273
                            ----------   -------    ----------     --------      ----------
  Exercise of stock
    options...............      11,868       119       64,150            --             --
  Tax benefit from stock
    options exercised.....          --        --       43,670            --             --
  Grant of stock
    options...............          --        --       21,341       (21,341)            --
  Amortization of deferred
    compensation..........          --        --           --        14,437             --
  Business acquisitions...       2,214        22       51,175            --             --
  Other adjustments.......          --        --        2,335            --             --
  Treasury stock
    transactions..........          --        --           33            --             --
  Unrealized gain/(loss)
    on investments........          --        --           --            --             --
  Minimum pension
    liability.............          --        --           --            --             --
  Translation
    adjustment............          --        --           --            --             --
  Net income..............          --        --           --            --        653,978
                            ----------   -------    ----------     --------      ----------
Balance, December 31,
  1998....................   1,022,952    10,230    1,479,823       (36,516)     2,289,251
                            ----------   -------    ----------     --------      ----------
  Exercise of stock
    options...............      11,373       113      103,219            --             --
  Tax benefit from stock
    options exercised.....          --        --       58,033            --             --
  Grant of stock
    options...............          --        --       16,077       (16,077)            --
  Issuance of common stock
    pursuant to conversion
    of notes..............       5,041        50       57,051            --             --
  Amortization of deferred
    compensation..........          --        --           --        22,311             --
  Retirement of treasury
    stock.................         (91)       --       (7,816)           --             --
  Minimum pension
    liability.............          --        --           --            --             --
  Unrealized gain/(loss)
    on investments........          --        --           --            --             --
  Translation
    adjustment............          --        --           --            --             --
  Net income..............          --        --           --            --      1,010,570
                            ----------   -------    ----------     --------      ----------
Balance, December 31,
  1999....................   1,039,275   $10,393    $1,706,387     $(30,282)     $3,299,821
                            ==========   =======    ==========     ========      ==========

<CAPTION>
                                FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                            ----------------------------------------------------

                             ACCUMULATED          TREASURY
                                OTHER               STOCK              TOTAL
                            COMPREHENSIVE    -------------------   STOCKHOLDERS'
                                INCOME        SHARES      COST        EQUITY
                            --------------   --------   --------   -------------
<S>                         <C>              <C>        <C>        <C>
Balance, December 31,
  1996....................     $  9,095          69     $(6,454)    $1,978,025
  Exercise of stock
    options...............           --          --          --         50,928
  Tax benefit from stock
    options exercised.....           --          --          --         18,540
  Grant of stock
    options...............           --          --          --             --
  Issuance of common stock
    pursuant to
    conversions of
    notes.................           --          --          --        265,782
  Amortization of deferred
    compensation..........           --          --          --          8,678
  Treasury stock
    transactions..........           --          (4)        579             --
  Proceeds in excess of
    minority interest in
    new McDATA............           --          --          --          6,625
  Unrealized gain/(loss)
    on investments........       (5,608)         --          --         (5,608)
  Translation
    adjustment............       (9,540)         --          --         (9,540)
  Net income..............           --          --          --        587,511
                               --------        ----     -------     ----------
Balance, December 31,
  1997....................       (6,053)         65      (5,875)     2,900,941
                               --------        ----     -------     ----------
  Exercise of stock
    options...............           --          --          --         64,269
  Tax benefit from stock
    options exercised.....           --          --          --         43,670
  Grant of stock
    options...............           --          --          --             --
  Amortization of deferred
    compensation..........           --          --          --         14,437
  Business acquisitions...           --          --          --         51,197
  Other adjustments.......           --          --          --          2,335
  Treasury stock
    transactions..........           --          --         (33)            --
  Unrealized gain/(loss)
    on investments........        6,777          --          --          6,777
  Minimum pension
    liability.............       (6,252)         --          --         (6,252)
  Translation
    adjustment............       (2,362)         --          --         (2,362)
  Net income..............           --          --          --        653,978
                               --------        ----     -------     ----------
Balance, December 31,
  1998....................       (7,890)         65      (5,908)     3,728,990
                               --------        ----     -------     ----------
  Exercise of stock
    options...............           --          26      (1,908)       101,424
  Tax benefit from stock
    options exercised.....           --          --          --         58,033
  Grant of stock
    options...............           --          --          --             --
  Issuance of common stock
    pursuant to conversion
    of notes..............           --          --          --         57,101
  Amortization of deferred
    compensation..........           --          --          --         22,311
  Retirement of treasury
    stock.................           --         (91)      7,816             --
  Minimum pension
    liability.............        6,252          --          --          6,252
  Unrealized gain/(loss)
    on investments........      (30,592)         --          --        (30,592)
  Translation
    adjustment............       (2,303)                     --         (2,303)
  Net income..............           --          --          --      1,010,570
                               --------        ----     -------     ----------
Balance, December 31,
  1999....................     $(34,533)         --     $    --     $4,951,786
                               ========        ====     =======     ==========
</TABLE>

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       31
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                                          ---------------------------------------------
                                                          DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                              1999            1998            1997
                                                          -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
Net income..............................................   $1,010,570       $653,978        $587,511
Other comprehensive income/(loss) net of tax benefit:
  Foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax
    of $(768), $(787) and $(3,180)......................       (2,303)        (2,362)         (9,540)
  Equity adjustment for minimum pension liability, net
    of tax of $2,084, $(2,084) and $0...................        6,252         (6,252)             --
  Unrealized gain/(loss) on investments and derivatives,
    net of tax of $(10,197), $2,259 and $(1,869)........      (30,592)         6,777          (5,608)
                                                           ----------       --------        --------
Other comprehensive income/(loss).......................      (26,643)        (1,837)        (15,148)
                                                           ----------       --------        --------
Comprehensive income....................................   $  983,927       $652,141        $572,363
                                                           ==========       ========        ========
</TABLE>

   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.

                                       32
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

A.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    COMPANY

    EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries ("EMC" or the "Company") design,
manufacture, market and support a wide range of hardware and software and
provide services for the storage, management, protection and sharing of
electronic information. These integrated solutions enable organizations to
create an electronic information infrastructure or what EMC calls an
E-Infostructure. EMC is the leading supplier of those solutions, which are
comprised of enterprise storage systems, networks, software and services. Its
products are sold to customers utilizing a variety of the world's most popular
computing platforms for key applications, including electronic commerce, data
warehousing and transaction processing.

    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated. The Company treats gains/ losses on sales of subsidiary
stock of development stage companies as equity transactions.

    BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The Company's fiscal year ends on December 31. On October 12, 1999, EMC
completed the acquisition of Data General Corporation ("Data General"), which
was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests. Prior to the acquisition, Data
General's fiscal year end was the last Saturday in September and its month end
was the last Saturday of the month. Data General's financial information has
been conformed to a calendar year end for each of the years presented. EMC's
consolidated financial statements include the results of Data General.

    Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 1999
presentation.

    USE OF ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION

    The Company generally recognizes revenue from product sales upon shipment
provided that no significant post-delivery obligations remain and collection of
the resulting receivable is reasonably assured. When significant post-delivery
obligations exist, revenue is deferred until such obligations are fulfilled. The
Company accrues for warranty costs, sales returns, and other allowances at the
time of shipment based on its experience. Revenue from sales-type leases is
recognized at the net present value of expected future payments. Service revenue
is recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered. In
transactions that include multiple products and/or services, the Company
allocates the sales value among each of the deliverables based on their relative
fair values.

                                       33
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

    The local currency is the functional currency of the majority of the
Company's subsidiaries. Assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars
at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and income and expense
items are translated at average rates for the period, except for property, plant
and equipment which is translated at historical exchange rates. The Company's
subsidiaries in Ireland, Israel and Hong Kong are generally dependent on the
U.S. dollar and therefore, their functional currency is the U.S. dollar.
Consolidated foreign currency transaction results included in other
income/(expense), net were gains of $2,712 in 1999, $5,746 in 1998 and $2,959 in
1997.

    DERIVATIVES

    In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"). SFAS 133 is effective for all
fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company
adopted SFAS 133 on January 1, 1999. As a result of this adoption, all
derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the
fair value of derivatives are recorded each period in current earnings or other
comprehensive income. The Company does not engage in currency speculation. The
Company may, from time to time, enter into derivative instruments to hedge
against known or forecasted market exposures.

    The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its net asset position
and a combination of forward and option contracts to hedge anticipated cash
flows. The gains or losses arising from forward contracts hedging the Company's
net asset position are recorded in other income or expense as offsets to the
gains or losses resulting from the underlying hedged items. Gains and losses
from contracts hedging cash flow exposures are recognized in the income
statement as appropriate in the same period in which the related underlying
hedged item is recognized.

    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments with a
maturity of ninety days or less at the time of purchase. These investments are
stated at amortized cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market. Total
cash equivalents were $598,684 and $565,420 at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Cash equivalents consist primarily of commercial paper and money
market securities.

    INVESTMENTS

    The Company's investments are comprised primarily of debt securities which
are classified at purchase as either held-to-maturity or available for sale
during 1998 and as available for sale in 1999. Investments with remaining
maturities of less than twelve months from the balance sheet date are classified
as short-term investments. Investments with remaining maturities of more than
twelve months from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term
investments.

                                       34
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  1999       1998       1997
                                                --------   --------   --------
<S>                                             <C>        <C>        <C>
Cash paid for:
  Income taxes................................  $325,990   $214,727   $112,645
  Interest....................................    31,285     34,666     28,649
</TABLE>

    INVENTORIES

    Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out) or market,
not in excess of net realizable value.

    PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

    Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as
follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Furniture and fixtures......................................  7 years
Equipment...................................................  3-10 years
Improvements................................................  5-25 years
Buildings...................................................  25-31 1/2 years
</TABLE>

    When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and accumulated
depreciation thereon are removed from the accounts and the related gains or
losses are included in the statement of income.

    CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS

    Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Software
development costs incurred subsequent to establishment of technological
feasibility through the general release of the software products are
capitalized. Technological feasibility is demonstrated by the completion of a
working model. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over a
period of two to four years. Unamortized software development costs were
$123,936 and $96,013 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and are
included in intangible and other assets. Amortization expense was $60,278,
$48,017 and $40,064 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

    INCOME TAXES

    Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the expected future
tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements
or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax liabilities and assets are
determined based on the difference between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the
year in which the differences are expected to reverse (see Note J). Tax credits
are generally recognized as reductions of income tax provisions in the year in
which the credits arise.

    The Company does not provide for U.S. income tax liability on undistributed
earnings of its foreign subsidiaries. The earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries,
which reflect full provision for non-U.S. income taxes, are indefinitely
reinvested in non-U.S. operations or will be remitted substantially free of

                                       35
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

additional tax. Accordingly, no material provision has been made for taxes that
might be payable upon remittance of such non-U.S. earnings.

    EARNINGS PER SHARE

    The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
"Earnings per Share" ("SFAS 128") beginning with the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1997. This Statement requires the presentation of basic and diluted
net income per share. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted net
income per share is computed using the weighted average number of common and
dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive common
equivalent shares consist of stock options and convertible debt. The Company has
restated all prior period per share data presented as required by SFAS 128.

    RETIREMENT/POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

    Net pension cost for the Company's domestic defined benefit pension plan is
funded as accrued, to the extent that current pension cost is deductible for
U.S. Federal tax purposes and to comply with the General Agreement on Tariff and
Trade Bureau (GATT) additional minimum funding requirements for the plan year
beginning October 1, 1995. Net pension cost for the Company's international
defined benefit pension plans are generally funded as accrued. The net
transition surplus or obligation for these international plans are amortized
over periods ranging from 15 to 20 years.

    Net post-retirement benefit costs for the Company's domestic post-retirement
benefits plan are generally funded as accrued, to the extent that current cost
is deductible for U.S. Federal tax purposes. The net transition obligation for
the plan is amortized over 18 years.

    ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

    Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS 123"), issued in 1995, defined a fair value
method of accounting for stock options and other equity instruments. Under the
fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the
fair value of the award and is recognized over the service period, which is
usually the vesting period. As provided for in SFAS 123, the Company elected to
apply Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25 and related
Interpretations in accounting for its stock-based compensation plans. The
required disclosures under SFAS 123 are included in Note M.

    CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

    Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash investments,
short and long-term investments and trade and notes receivable. The Company
places its temporary cash investments and short and long-term investments in
investment grade instruments and limits the amount of investment with any one
financial institution. The credit risk associated with trade receivables is
minimal due to the large number of customers and their broad dispersion over
many different industries and geographic areas.

    Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") represented 5%, 16% and 17% of the Company's
total revenues in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company and HP agreed
to terminate their reseller contract effective as of June 30, 1999.

                                       36
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

B.  ACQUISITIONS

    On October 12, 1999, EMC acquired Data General, a designer, manufacturer and
marketer of CLARiiON Fibre Channel storage systems and AViiON computer systems
servers for fast growing segments of the server market, in a transaction
accounted for as a pooling-of-interests. EMC issued an aggregate of
approximately 16 million shares of common stock, or 0.3125 shares of EMC common
stock for each share of outstanding Data General common stock, in the
acquisition.

    Separate company results for 1999 before the combination was consummated
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           NINE MONTHS ENDED
                                                          SEPTEMBER 30, 1999
                                                        -----------------------
                                                         REVENUES    NET INCOME
                                                        ----------   ----------
<S>                                                     <C>          <C>
EMC...................................................  $3,753,434    $819,126
Data General..........................................   1,086,423     (15,162)
                                                        ----------    --------
Total.................................................  $4,839,857    $803,964
                                                        ==========    ========
</TABLE>

    The Company acquired several companies during 1998, in transactions
accounted for using the purchase method, which are not significant to its
financial position or results of operations. Under the purchase method, the
results of operations of acquired companies are included prospectively from the
date of acquisition, and the acquisition cost is allocated to the acquirees'
assets and liabilities based upon their fair market values at the date of
acquisition.

    On December 31, 1999 and 1998 the net book value of goodwill associated with
all acquisitions was $66,915 and $102,610, respectively. Goodwill is being
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from five to ten years
and is included in intangible and other assets, net. Accumulated amortization
was $41,769 and $18,925 on December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

C.  RESTRUCTURING, MERGER AND OTHER CHARGES

    During fiscal year 1999, the Company recorded a total charge of $223.6
million related to restructuring, merger and other charges primarily related to
the acquisition of Data General. During 1998, the Company recorded charges
totaling $135.0 million related to a restructuring program and other charges.

    During the fourth quarter of 1999, the Company approved and implemented a
restructuring program in connection with its acquisition of Data General. The
restructuring plan, which is expected to be completed by December 2000, provides
for the consolidation of the Company's operations and elimination of duplicative
facilities worldwide. Accordingly, during 1999, the Company recorded a charge of
approximately $170.6 million related to employee termination benefits, facility
closure costs, asset disposals and other exit costs which the Company has
recorded in operating expenses. The expected cash impact of the charge is
approximately $140.7 million of which $52.4 million was paid in 1999.

    The restructuring program includes an aggregate net reduction of the
workforce of approximately 1,100 employees approximately 59% of whom are or were
based in North America and 23% of whom are or were based in Europe. The employee
separations affect the majority of business functions and

                                       37
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

job classes. Of the approximately 1,100 employees identified, approximately 500
were terminated in 1999.

    In 1999, the Company also recorded a charge for merger costs of $23.5
million for financial advisory services, legal, accounting and other direct
expenses related to the Data General acquisition which has been recorded in
operating expenses. In addition, the Company recorded a $14.1 million charge
related to asset impairments recorded in operating expenses and recorded a
charge of $15.4 million for capitalized software and inventory write-downs which
is included in cost of product sales.

    In 1998, the Company recorded a charge of $135.0 million related to a
restructuring program and certain asset write-downs resulting from the program.
The charge included approximately $82.4 million related to employee termination
benefits, asset write-downs and other exit costs which the Company has recorded
in operating expenses and approximately $52.6 million for capitalized software
and inventory write-downs which are included in cost of product sales. The total
cash impact of the restructuring charge is approximately $58.5 million of which
$24.4 million was paid in 1998 and $21.6 million was paid in 1999. As of
December 31, 1999, the remaining accruals of $15.7 million from the 1998
restructuring program are primarily related to excess vacant rental properties
in Europe.

    The 1998 restructuring program included an aggregate net reduction of the
workforce by approximately 480 employees, approximately 65% of whom were based
in North America and the remainder of whom were in Europe and Asia Pacific. The
employee separations affected the majority of business functions and job
classes. Of the 480 employees identified, approximately 400 were terminated
during 1998 and 80 were terminated in 1999.

    The amounts accrued and charged against the established provisions described
above were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    CURRENT      CURRENT
                                                       BEGINNING     YEAR         YEAR        ENDING
                                                        BALANCE    PROVISION   UTILIZATION   BALANCE
                                                       ---------   ---------   -----------   --------
<S>                                                    <C>         <C>         <C>           <C>
1999
Employee termination benefits........................   $21,359    $121,539     $ 67,417     $ 75,481
Lease abandonments...................................    13,321      11,193        5,859       18,655
Asset disposals......................................     5,747      17,930       19,561        4,116
Other exit costs.....................................     3,109      19,948       11,862       11,195
                                                        -------    --------     --------     --------
                                                        $43,536    $170,610     $104,699     $109,447
                                                        =======    ========     ========     ========

1998
Employee termination benefits........................   $    --    $ 43,709     $ 22,350     $ 21,359
Lease abandonments...................................     6,500      11,341        4,520       13,321
Asset disposals......................................        --      19,850       14,103        5,747
Other exit costs.....................................        --       7,500        4,391        3,109
                                                        -------    --------     --------     --------
                                                        $ 6,500    $ 82,400     $ 45,364     $ 43,536
                                                        =======    ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

D.  DERIVATIVES

    The Company uses derivatives to hedge foreign currency cash flows on a
continuing basis for periods consistent with its net asset and forecasted
exposures. Since the Company is using foreign

                                       38
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

exchange derivative contracts to hedge foreign exchange exposures, the changes
in the value of the derivatives are highly effective in offsetting changes in
the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. Any ineffective portion of the
derivatives is recognized in current earnings, which represented an immaterial
amount for fiscal year 1999. The ineffective portion of the derivatives is
primarily related to option premiums and to discounts or premiums on forward
contracts.

    The Company hedges its net asset position with forward exchange contracts.
Since these derivatives hedge existing net assets that are denominated in
foreign currencies, the contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS
133. The changes in fair value from these contracts as well as the underlying
exposures are generally offsetting, and are recorded in other income/(expense)
on the income statement. These derivative contracts generally mature within six
months. At December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had $592,581 and $477,251,
respectively, of forward exchange contracts outstanding.

    The Company uses foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a
portion of its forecasted transactions. These derivatives are designated as cash
flow hedges, and changes in their fair value are carried in accumulated other
comprehensive income/(expense) until the underlying forecasted transaction
occurs. Once the underlying forecasted transaction is realized, the appropriate
gain or loss from the derivative designated as a hedge of the transaction is
reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense) to the income
statement, in revenue and expense, as appropriate. In the event the underlying
forecasted transaction does not occur, the amount recorded in accumulated other
comprehensive income/(expense) will be reclassified to the other
income/(expense) line of the income statement in the then-current period. The
Company's cash flow hedges generally mature within nine months or less. At
December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had $40,545 and $0, respectively, of
forward contracts outstanding. In addition, at December 31, 1999 and 1998, the
Company had $55,000 and $10,000, respectively, of foreign currency options
outstanding.

    The Company recorded in revenue and expense approximately $1,814 in net
losses from cash flow hedges related to items forecasted for fiscal year 1999.
The amount that will be reclassified from other accumulated comprehensive
income/(expense) to earnings over the next twelve months is a gain of
approximately $1,212, net of tax.

    As permitted with the adoption of SFAS133, the Company also reclassified
$602,575 of held-to-maturity securities as "available for sale" in the first
quarter of 1999. This reclassification resulted in an immaterial adjustment
recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income/(expense) to reflect the
difference between the carrying cost and market value of these securities.

                                       39
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

E.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    FAIR VALUE

    The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for cash
and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, current portion of long-term debt and
accounts payable approximate fair value due to the short maturities of these
instruments.

    The carrying and estimated fair values of the Company's 3 1/4% Convertible
Subordinated Notes due 2002 (the "3 1/4% Notes") at December 31, 1999 were
$460,399 and $4,440,375, respectively. The carrying and estimated fair values of
the Company's 6% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2004 (the "6% Notes") at
December 31, 1999 were $212,750 and $277,277, respectively. The fair values of
the 3 1/4% Notes and the 6% Notes are based on the closing price of the Common
Stock as of December 31, 1999.

    INVESTMENTS

    The Company's investment portfolio includes available for sale securities
only. Prior to 1999, the Company's investment portfolio included
held-to-maturity and available for sale securities. The following tables
summarize the composition of the Company's held-to-maturity short and long-term
investments at December 31, 1998.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                                          -----------------------
                                                          AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                          COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                          ----------   ----------
<S>                                                       <C>          <C>
U.S. corporate debt securities..........................   $509,478     $508,923
U.S. government and agencies............................    218,363      218,214
Foreign debt securities.................................     21,388       21,221
                                                           --------     --------
  Total due within one year.............................   $749,229     $748,358
                                                           ========     ========
</TABLE>

    There were no for held-to-maturity securities at December 31, 1999. The net
unrealized loss of $871 at December 31, 1998 consisted of gross unrealized gains
of $160 and gross unrealized losses of $1,031.

                                       40
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The following tables summarize the composition of the Company's available
for sale short and long-term investments at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                                       -----------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                       ----------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>
Asset and mortgage-backed securities.................  $  374,511   $  369,037
U.S. government and agencies.........................     792,354      777,800
U.S. corporate debt securities.......................     863,736      855,191
Foreign debt securities..............................      62,445       62,301
                                                       ----------   ----------
  Total..............................................  $2,093,046   $2,064,329
                                                       ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                                       -----------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                       ----------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>
Asset and mortgage-backed securities.................  $  411,098   $  411,251
U.S. government and agencies.........................     218,855      218,996
U.S. corporate debt securities.......................     153,140      153,823
U.S. corporate equity securities.....................       1,254       10,530
Foreign debt securities..............................       1,011        1,013
                                                       ----------   ----------
  Total..............................................  $  785,358   $  795,613
                                                       ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

    The contractual maturities of available for sale investments held at
December 31, 1999 and 1998 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 1999
                                                       -----------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                       ----------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>
Due within one year..................................  $  717,589   $  714,730
Due after one year through five years................   1,375,457    1,349,599
                                                       ----------   ----------
  Total..............................................  $2,093,046   $2,064,329
                                                       ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 1998
                                                       -----------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                       ----------   ----------
<S>                                                    <C>          <C>
Due within one year..................................  $  224,252   $  233,253
Due after one year through five years................     561,106      562,360
                                                       ----------   ----------
  Total..............................................  $  785,358   $  795,613
                                                       ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

    The net unrealized loss on available for sale securities at December 31,
1999 was $28,717, which consisted of gross unrealized gains of $54 and gross
unrealized losses of $28,771. The gross unrealized gain at December 31, 1998 was
$10,255 consisting of $12,164 of gross unrealized gains and $1,909 of gross
unrealized losses. The unrealized gains and losses are included in other
comprehensive income/ (loss).

                                       41
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Investment income consists principally of interest income, including
interest on notes receivable from sales-type leases.

F.  INVENTORIES

    Inventories consist of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Purchased parts.....................................    $ 38,204        $ 33,692
Work-in-process.....................................     379,679         347,695
Finished goods......................................     201,002         238,638
                                                        --------        --------
                                                        $618,885        $620,025
                                                        ========        ========
</TABLE>

G.  NOTES RECEIVABLE

    Notes receivable are primarily from installment sales and sales-type leases
of the Company's products. The payment schedule for such notes at December 31,
1999 is as follows:

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
2000........................................................  $ 65,843
2001........................................................    42,933
2002........................................................    39,917
2003........................................................    11,454
2004........................................................     2,703
Thereafter..................................................       184
                                                              --------
Face value..................................................   163,034
Less amounts representing interest..........................    16,514
                                                              --------
Present value...............................................   146,520
Current portion.............................................    69,764
                                                              --------
Long-term portion...........................................  $ 76,756
                                                              ========
</TABLE>

    Implicit interest rates range from approximately 7% to 14%.

    Actual cash collections may differ from amounts shown on the table due to
early customer buyouts, upgrades or refinancings.

    The Company may receive proceeds for its sales-type leases through
third-party financing arrangements with various financial institutions on a
nonrecourse basis, which may either be collateralized by a lien on the
equipment, which is returned to the Company at the end of the lease, or title to
the equipment may pass to the funding source at the time of financing. Residual
values recorded by the Company for equipment under leases at December 31, 1999
and 1998 were $3,215 and $21,878, respectively, and are included in intangible
and other assets.

                                       42
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

H.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

    Property, plant and equipment consists of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Furniture and fixtures..............................   $  101,954      $   72,044
Equipment...........................................    1,237,247       1,162,695
Buildings and improvements..........................      439,924         347,686
Land................................................       32,451          22,268
Construction in progress............................      106,304          51,205
                                                       ----------      ----------
                                                        1,917,880       1,655,898
Accumulated depreciation............................     (894,701)       (832,738)
                                                       ----------      ----------
                                                       $1,023,179      $  823,160
                                                       ==========      ==========
</TABLE>

    Depreciation expense was $301,480, $226,151 and $168,548 in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.

I.  ACCRUED EXPENSES

    Accrued expenses consist of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Salaries and benefits...............................    $204,222        $167,215
Warranty............................................      60,165          47,119
Restructure.........................................     109,447          43,536
Other...............................................     237,218         199,252
                                                        --------        --------
                                                        $611,052        $457,122
                                                        ========        ========
</TABLE>

J.  INCOME TAXES

    The Company's provision for income taxes consists of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 1999        1998       1997
                                               ---------   --------   --------
<S>                                            <C>         <C>        <C>
Federal and state
  Current....................................  $ 424,274   $247,280   $163,142
  Deferred...................................   (115,056)    (1,811)     7,790
                                               ---------   --------   --------
                                                 309,218    245,469    170,932
                                               ---------   --------   --------
Foreign
  Current....................................     45,294     13,590     10,129
  Deferred...................................     (7,917)     1,196        748
                                               ---------   --------   --------
                                                  37,377     14,786     10,877
                                               ---------   --------   --------
Total provision for income taxes.............  $ 346,595   $260,255   $181,809
                                               =========   ========   ========
</TABLE>

                                       43
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Net undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 1999 and
1998 approximated $1,384,035 and $984,946, respectively. Based on the Company's
policy of indefinite reinvestment in non-U.S. operations, it is not currently
practicable to determine the tax liability associated with the repatriation of
these earnings. The Company's manufacturing facility in Ireland incurs a 10% tax
rate on income from manufacturing operations until the year 2010. Income before
income taxes from foreign operations for 1999, 1998 and 1997 approximated
$449,775, $374,297 and $265,628, respectively.

    A reconciliation of the Company's income tax provision to the statutory
federal tax rate is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               1999       1998       1997
                                                             --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                          <C>        <C>        <C>
Statutory federal tax rate.................................     35.0%      35.0%      35.0%
State taxes, net of federal tax benefits...................      2.4        2.2        1.9
International tax benefits.................................     (9.6)     (13.3)     (10.6)
U.S. tax credits...........................................     (1.1)      (0.4)      (0.6)
Rate detriment/(benefit) from Data General net operating
  losses...................................................      0.8        5.5       (2.3)
Merger related costs and change in valuation
  allowance................................................     (1.2)        --         --
Other......................................................     (0.8)      (0.5)       0.2
                                                              ------     ------     ------
                                                                25.5%      28.5%      23.6%
                                                              ======     ======     ======
</TABLE>

    The components of the current and noncurrent deferred tax assets and
liabilities are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                                 1999           1998
                                                             ------------   ------------
<S>                                                          <C>            <C>
Current deferred tax assets:
Accounts receivable........................................   $  24,120      $  14,072
Inventory..................................................      49,650         33,277
Other liabilities..........................................      27,412         27,141
Other assets...............................................       9,085          1,860
Fringe.....................................................      20,616         28,445
Restructuring..............................................      16,588          8,894
Valuation reserve..........................................          --        (64,007)
                                                              ---------      ---------
  Total current deferred tax assets........................   $ 147,471      $  49,682
                                                              =========      =========
Noncurrent deferred tax assets/(liabilities):
Fixed assets...............................................   $      --      $   6,590
Intangible assets..........................................      15,049         11,963
Net operating loss carryforwards...........................     128,416        162,371
Credit carryforwards.......................................      19,770         20,287
Other......................................................      31,390          8,015
Deferred compensation......................................      14,382         12,400
Restructuring..............................................      19,919         11,817
Valuation reserve..........................................    (120,339)      (206,882)
                                                              ---------      ---------
Deferred tax assets........................................     108,587         26,561
                                                              ---------      ---------
Fixed assets...............................................     (27,246)            --
Deferral of lease revenue..................................     (39,256)       (33,537)
Software development costs.................................     (54,774)       (38,753)
Other......................................................      (4,077)        (3,000)
                                                              ---------      ---------
Deferred tax liabilities...................................    (125,353)       (75,290)
                                                              ---------      ---------
  Total noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, net...........   $ (16,766)     $ (48,729)
                                                              =========      =========
</TABLE>

                                       44
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The Company had federal and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
$388 million and tax credit carry forwards of $20 million. The utilization of
these tax attributes is limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), for U.S. tax purposes and similar provisions
under local country tax laws. Certain net operating losses will begin to expire
in the year 2000, while others have an unlimited carryforward period. As of
December 31, 1999, the valuation allowance primarily relates to foreign
operating losses which are subject to limitation. In conjunction with the
acquisition of Data General, the Company reviewed the net realizability of its
deferred tax assets and recorded a benefit of $65 million in 1999. The
realization of the remaining net deferred tax assets is considered more likely
than not.

K.  RETIREMENT PLANS AND RETIREE MEDICAL BENEFITS

    401(K) PLAN

    The Company has established a deferred compensation program for certain
employees which is qualified under Section 401(k) of the Code.

    At the end of each calendar quarter, the Company makes a contribution that
matches 100% of the employee's contribution up to 3% of the employee's quarterly
compensation. Additionally, provided that certain quarterly profit goals are
attained, the Company in succeeding quarters, provides an additional matching
contribution of 1% of the employee's quarterly compensation up to a maximum
quarterly matching contribution not to exceed 5% of compensation or $750 per
quarter. The Company's contribution amounted to approximately $12,729 in 1999,
$6,880 in 1998 and $4,990 in 1997, pursuant to this formula.

    DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS

    The Company has a noncontributory defined benefit pension plan which was
assumed as part of the Data General acquisition, which covers substantially all
former Data General employees located in the U.S. The Company also has a
supplemental retirement benefit plan, which covers certain former Data General
employees located in the U.S. In addition, certain of the former Data General
foreign subsidiaries also have retirement plans covering substantially all of
their employees.

    Benefits under these plans are generally based on either career average or
final average salaries and creditable years of service as defined in the plans.
The annual cost for these plans is determined using the projected unit credit
actuarial cost method which includes significant actuarial assumptions and
estimates which are subject to change in the near term. Prior service cost is
amortized over the average remaining service period of employees expected to
receive benefits under the plan. Funds contributed to the plans are invested
primarily in common stock, mutual funds, bond funds and cash equivalent
securities.

    The Data General U.S. pension plan, U.S. supplemental retirement benefit
plan and foreign retirement plans (the "Pension Plans") are summarized in the
following tables.

                                       45
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The components of the change in benefit obligation of the Pension Plans are
as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Benefit obligation at beginning of year.............    $273,826        $213,229
Service cost........................................      10,635           9,879
Interest cost.......................................      17,890          17,135
Participant contributions...........................         802             848
Plan amendments.....................................         390             114
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss........................      (2,144)          1,964
Curtailment gain....................................     (13,568)         (1,490)
Special termination benefits........................          --           1,044
Benefits paid.......................................      (5,566)         (4,397)
Settlement payments.................................        (100)           (214)
Actuarial (gain)/loss...............................     (28,715)         35,714
                                                        --------        --------
Benefit obligation at end of year...................    $253,450        $273,826
                                                        ========        ========
</TABLE>

    The reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value of
the assets of the Pension Plans is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year......    $238,198        $198,264
Actual return on plan assets........................      30,269          17,238
Employer contributions..............................       9,505          24,470
Participant contributions...........................         802             848
Foreign exchange gain/(loss)........................      (1,297)          1,989
Benefits paid.......................................      (5,566)         (4,397)
Settlement payments.................................        (100)           (214)
                                                        --------        --------
Fair value of plan assets at end of year............    $271,811        $238,198
                                                        ========        ========
</TABLE>

    The funded status of the Pension Plans is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Funded status.......................................     $18,361        $(35,628)
Unrecognized actuarial (gain)/loss..................     (15,854)         23,081
Unrecognized transition asset.......................      (3,780)         (5,598)
Unrecognized prior service cost/(credit)............        (648)         22,112
                                                         -------        --------
Net amount recognized at year end...................     $(1,921)       $  3,967
                                                         =======        ========
</TABLE>

                                       46
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Amounts recognized in the balance sheet consist of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1999         1998
                                                      ----------   ----------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
Prepaid benefit cost................................   $ 4,874      $  1,875
Accrued benefit liability...........................    (6,795)      (24,544)
Intangible asset....................................        --        20,384
Accumulated other comprehensive income..............        --         6,252
                                                       -------      --------
Net amount recognized at year end...................   $(1,921)     $  3,967
                                                       =======      ========
</TABLE>

    The components of net periodic benefit cost of the Pension Plans are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             1999         1998         1997
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
Service cost............................   $ 10,635     $  9,879     $  7,989
Interest cost...........................     17,890       17,135       14,533
Expected return on plan assets..........    (21,427)     (19,963)     (15,830)
Amortization of transition asset........       (772)        (849)        (853)
Amortization of prior service cost......      1,286        1,806        1,374
Recognized actuarial (gain)/loss........        229           27          (32)
Curtailment, net of settlements.........      7,947          183          (63)
Special termination benefit.............         --        1,044           --
                                           --------     --------     --------
Net periodic benefit cost...............   $ 15,788     $  9,262     $  7,118
                                           ========     ========     ========
</TABLE>

    The weighted-average assumptions used in the Pension Plans are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                              1999            1998            1997
                                          -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
Discount rate...........................         8%              7%              8%
Expected long-term rate of return on
  plan assets...........................         9%              9%             10%
Rate of compensation increase...........         4%              4%              4%
</TABLE>

    As of December 31, 1999, the U.S. Data General pension plan was frozen. In
1998, the terms of some severance benefits from the reduction in workforce
resulted in special termination benefits paid from the pension plan of $1,044
and resulted in a small curtailment loss.

    The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair
value of plan assets for the Pension Plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of plan assets was $8,130, $6,496 and $3,137, respectively, as of
December 31, 1999, and $264,040, $244,670 and $229,152, respectively as of
December 31, 1998.

    POST RETIREMENT MEDICAL AND LIFE INSURANCE PLAN

    The Company's post-retirement benefit plan, which was assumed in connection
with the acquisition of Data General, provides certain medical and life
insurance benefits for retired former Data General employees. With the exception
of certain participants who retired prior to 1986, the medical benefit plan
requires monthly contributions by retired participants in an amount equal to
insured equivalent costs less a fixed Company contribution which is dependent on
the participant's length of service and Medicare eligibility. Benefits are
continued to dependents of eligible retiree participants for 39 weeks

                                       47
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

after the death of the retiree. The life insurance benefit plan is
noncontributory. Funds contributed to the plan are invested primarily in common
stocks, mutual funds, and cash equivalent securities.

    The components of the change in benefit obligation are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Benefit obligation at beginning of year.............     $10,421         $ 9,669
Service cost........................................         319             327
Interest cost.......................................         752             727
Participant contributions...........................          --             162
Plan amendments.....................................      (3,939)             --
Curtailment gain....................................          --            (237)
Special termination benefits........................          --             132
Benefits paid.......................................      (1,047)           (952)
Settlement payments.................................          --              --
Actuarial (gain)/loss...............................         (99)            593
                                                         -------         -------
Benefit obligation at end of year...................     $ 6,407         $10,421
                                                         =======         =======
</TABLE>

    The reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the fair value of
plan assets is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year......     $   335         $   174
Actual return on plan assets........................          36              (1)
Employer contributions..............................       1,047             952
Participant contributions...........................          --             162
Benefits paid.......................................      (1,047)           (952)
                                                         -------         -------
Fair value of plan assets at end of year............     $   371         $   335
                                                         =======         =======
</TABLE>

    The funded status of the plan is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                                          1999            1998
                                                      -------------   -------------
<S>                                                   <C>             <C>
Funded status.......................................    $ (6,036)       $(10,086)
Unrecognized actuarial gain.........................        (761)           (685)
Unrecognized transition obligation..................       1,768           1,933
Unrecognized prior service cost/(credit)............      (3,420)            587
                                                        --------        --------
Accrued benefit liability...........................    $ (8,449)       $ (8,251)
                                                        ========        ========
</TABLE>

                                       48
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             1999         1998         1997
                                          ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
Service cost............................   $   319      $   327      $   304
Interest cost...........................       752          727          696
Expected return on plan assets..........       (54)         (19)         (19)
Amortization of transition asset........        67           69           72
Amortization of prior service cost......       164          170          175
Recognized actuarial gain...............        (4)         (18)         (11)
Curtailment, net........................        --          (46)          --
Special termination benefit.............        --          132           --
                                           -------      -------      -------
Net periodic benefit cost...............   $ 1,244      $ 1,342      $ 1,217
                                           =======      =======      =======
</TABLE>

    The weighted-average assumptions used in the plan are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,    DECEMBER 31,
                                              1999            1998            1997
                                          -------------   -------------   -------------
<S>                                       <C>             <C>             <C>
Discount rate...........................         8%              7%              8%
Expected long-term rate of return on
  plan assets...........................        10%             10%             10%
Rate of compensation increase...........         4%              5%              4%
</TABLE>

    The effect of a one-percentage-point increase and the effect of a
one-percentage-point decrease in the assumed health care cost trend rates are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1% INCREASE   1% DECREASE
                                                        -----------   -----------
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>
Effect on total service and interest cost components
  for
  1999................................................    $      4      $     (4)
Effect on year-end post retirement obligation.........          45           (45)
</TABLE>

L.  COMMITMENTS AND LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

    OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS

    The Company leases office and warehouse facilities and other equipment under
various operating leases. Facilities rent expense amounted to $61,326, $52,664,
and $41,850 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The Company's commitments
under its operating leases are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              OPERATING
FISCAL YEAR                                                    LEASES
- -----------                                                   ---------
<S>                                                           <C>
2000........................................................  $124,998
2001........................................................    79,901
2002........................................................    50,383
2003........................................................    36,549
2004........................................................    25,420
Thereafter..................................................    75,473
                                                              --------
Total minimum lease payments................................  $392,724
                                                              ========
</TABLE>

                                       49
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    LINES OF CREDIT

    EMC has a line of credit providing a maximum of $50,000. There were no
borrowings outstanding at either December 31, 1999 or 1998. The Company must
maintain certain minimum financial ratios, including a minimum level of working
capital and tangible net worth, upon utilization of the line of credit.

    3 1/4% NOTES

    In March 1997, the Company sold $517,500 of 3 1/4% Notes. The 3 1/4% Notes
are generally convertible into shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value per share,
of the Company (the "Common Stock") at a conversion price of $11.33 per share,
subject to adjustment in certain events. Interest is payable semiannually and
the 3 1/4% Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company at set redemption
prices (which range from 100.65% to 101.30% of principal), plus accrued
interest, commencing March 15, 2000. On February 15, 2000, the Company announced
that it would redeem all of the outstanding 3 1/4% Notes on March 15, 2000;
however, the Company believes that substantially all of the outstanding 3 1/4%
Notes were converted into Common Stock on or prior to such date.

    4 1/4% NOTES

    In December 1993 and January 1994, the Company sold $230 million of its
4 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2001 (the "4 1/4% Notes"). The 4 1/4%
Notes were generally convertible into shares of Common Stock at any time prior
to the redemption date at a conversion price of $4.96 per share. On January 2,
1997, the Company paid approximately sixty-five thousand dollars to redeem the
outstanding 4 1/4% Notes and converted the remainder into Common Stock.

    6% NOTES

    In May 1997, Data General sold $212,750 of the 6% Notes. The 6% Notes are
generally convertible into shares of Common Stock at a conversion price of
$83.82 per share, subject to adjustment in certain events. Interest is payable
semi-annually and the 6% Notes are redeemable at the option of the Company at
set redemption prices (which range from 100.857% to 103.429% of principal), plus
accrued interest, commencing May 14, 2000.

    IDA GRANT

    The Industrial Development Authority ("IDA") of Ireland has granted the
Company a total of $5,189 towards the purchase price and improvements to the
Company's facility in Ireland. The grants are included in long-term obligations
and are amortized over the related estimated useful lives of the assets
purchased of twenty-five years for building improvements and seven years for
equipment. Remaining unpaid grants at December 31, 1999 are $3,582, of which
$324 is current and $3,258 is long-term.

    PURCHASE OF PATENT PORTFOLIO

    In February 1996, the Company acquired a patent portfolio valued at $40
million. Payments of approximately $26 million have been made to date with the
remainder due in annual installments over two years. The asset is being
amortized over the remaining estimated useful life of one year and is

                                       50
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

included in intangible and other assets, net. Accumulated amortization at
December 31, 1999 and 1998 was approximately $37,833 and $28,333, respectively.

    Payments remaining on the above commitments and other noncurrent liabilities
(excluding the IDA grant, the 3 1/4% Notes and the 6% Notes) are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                                              -----------
<S>                                                           <C>
2000........................................................    $ 8,989
2001........................................................      9,771
2002........................................................        540
2003........................................................         --
2004........................................................         --
                                                                -------
Total minimum payments......................................     19,300
Less amounts representing interest..........................        306
                                                                -------
Present value of net payments...............................     18,994
Current portion.............................................      8,792
                                                                -------
Long-term portion...........................................    $10,202
                                                                =======
</TABLE>

    MINORITY INTEREST

    On October 1, 1997, the Company reorganized McDATA Corporation ("McDATA"),
acquired by the Company in 1995, into a new McDATA Corporation ("New McDATA")
and McDATA Holdings Corporation ("McDATA Holdings"). New McDATA designs,
develops and markets fibre channel solutions for switched enterprise
environments. McDATA Holdings, a wholly-owned subsidiary of EMC, is currently
the majority shareholder in New McDATA. New McDATA is also currently performing
services under the ESCON OEM Agreement with IBM on behalf of McDATA Holdings.
The minority interest amounts are included in other liabilities and other
income/(expense), net.

M.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

    STOCK SPLIT

    On October 21, 1997, the Company announced a 2-for-1 stock split in the form
of a 100% stock dividend with a record date of October 31, 1997 and a
distribution date of November 17, 1997. On February 25, 1999, the Company
announced a 2-for-1 stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend with a
record date of May 14, 1999 and a distribution date of May 28, 1999. Share and
per share amounts have been restated to reflect the stock splits for all periods
presented.

                                       51
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    NET INCOME PER SHARE

    Calculation of per share earnings is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1999         1998         1997
                                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
BASIC:
Net income...............................................  $1,010,570   $  653,978   $  587,511
Weighted average common shares outstanding...............   1,030,551    1,015,371    1,001,016
Net income per share, basic..............................  $     0.98   $     0.64   $     0.59
                                                           ==========   ==========   ==========
DILUTED:
Net income...............................................  $1,010,570   $  653,978   $  587,511
Add back of interest expense on convertible notes........      15,974       16,819       13,502
Less tax effect of interest expense on convertible 3 1/4%
  notes..................................................      (6,390)      (6,728)      (5,401)
                                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income for calculating diluted earnings per share....  $1,020,154   $  664,069   $  595,612
Weighted average common shares outstanding...............   1,030,551    1,015,371    1,001,016
Weighted common stock equivalents........................      78,981       78,844       64,468
                                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
Total weighted average shares............................   1,109,532    1,094,215    1,065,484
Net income per share, diluted............................  $     0.92   $     0.61   $     0.56
                                                           ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

    The calculation of earnings per share excludes the 6% Notes as these are
considered antidilutive.

    PREFERRED STOCK

    The Company's Series Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one
or more series, with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine, without
further action by the stockholders of the Company.

    STOCK OPTION PLANS

    The Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the EMC Corporation 1993 and
1985 Stock Option Plans (the "1993 Plan" and the "1985 Plan," respectively).
These plans provide qualified incentive stock options and nonqualified stock
options to key employees of the Company. A total of 80 million and 144 million
shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance under the 1993 Plan and
the 1985 Plan, respectively.

    Under the terms of each of the 1993 Plan and the 1985 Plan, the exercise
price of incentive stock options issued must be equal to at least the fair
market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant. In the event that
nonqualified stock options are granted under the 1993 Plan, the exercise price
may be less than the fair market value at the time of grant but not less than
par value which is $.01 per share. In the event that nonqualified stock options
are granted under the 1985 Plan, the exercise price may be less than the fair
market value at the time of grant, but in the case of employees not subject to
Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Section 16"), not less than
par value which is $.01 per share, and in the case of employees subject to
Section 16, not less than 50% of the fair market value on the date of grant.
Since May 1995, no new incentive stock options have been available for grant
under the 1985 Plan.

                                       52
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    In 1999, options to purchase an aggregate of 261 thousand shares of Common
Stock at $.01 per share were granted to certain employees. Also in 1999, options
to purchase an aggregate of 145 thousand shares of Common Stock at $64.25 per
share were granted to certain employees, representing 73% of the per share fair
market value on the date of grant. In 1998, options to purchase an aggregate of
424 thousand shares of Common Stock at $.01 per share were granted to an
executive officer and certain other employees. Also in 1998, an executive
officer was granted options to purchase 250 thousand shares at $12.97 per share,
representing 50% of the per share fair market value on the date of grant. In
1997, options to purchase 1 million shares at $6.12 per share and 800 thousand
shares at $13.78 per share were granted to executive officers, representing 50%
and 90%, respectively, of the per share fair market value on the date of grant.
Discounts from fair market value have been recorded as deferred compensation and
are being amortized over the vesting periods of the options, which range from
eighteen months to five years.

    The EMC Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan for Directors (the "Directors
Plan") was adopted by the Board of Directors and stockholders. A total of 7.2
million shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance under the
Directors Plan. The exercise price for each option granted under the Directors
Plan will be at a price per share determined at the time the option is granted,
but not less than 50% of the per share fair market value of Common Stock on the
date of grant.

    In 1998, options to purchase 240 thousand shares of Common Stock at $10.56
per share were granted to three directors, representing 50% of the per share
fair market value on the date of grant. In 1997, options to purchase 320
thousand shares of Common Stock at $6.12 per share were granted to two
directors, representing 50% of the per share fair market value on the date of
grant. Discounts from fair market value have been recorded as deferred
compensation and are being amortized over the three-year vesting period of the
options.

    Generally, when shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of incentive stock
options are sold within one year of exercise or within two years from the date
of grant, the Company derives a tax deduction measured by the amount that the
fair market value exceeds the option price at the date the options are
exercised. When nonqualified stock options are exercised, the Company derives a
tax deduction measured by the amount that the fair market value exceeds the
option price on the date the options are exercised.

    As of December 31, 1999, there were options to acquire an aggregate of
approximately 19.6 million shares of Common Stock exercisable under the 1993
Plan, the 1985 Plan and the Directors Plan, as well as under certain plans
assumed in connection with the acquisition of Data General. At December 31,
1999, there were an aggregate of approximately 24.1 million shares available for
issuance pursuant to future option grants under the 1993 Plan, the 1985 Plan and
the Directors Plan. Options generally become exercisable in equal annual
installments over a period of three to five years after the date of grant and
expire ten years after the date of grant.

    The Company has, in connection with the acquisition of various companies,
assumed the stock option plans of these companies. Details of the stock option
plans assumed in connection with the acquisition of Data General are set out
below. The Company does not intend to make future grants under any of such
plans.

    Data General had authorized the grant of either incentive stock options or
non-qualified stock options to employees to purchase up to an aggregate of
7.5 million shares of Common Stock under certain stock option plans. For
incentive options, the purchase price is equal to the fair market value

                                       53
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

on the date of grant. For non-qualified options, the purchase price is
determined within limits as set forth in the plans. Options granted under the
plans generally are immediately exercisable and include restrictions against
disposition of the shares and a requirement, upon termination of employment, to
offer unvested shares for resale to the Company at their original purchase
price. Options may expire up to ten years after the date of grant.

    All former Data General employees were eligible to participate in the Data
General Corporation 1998 Employee Stock Option Plan (the "1998 Plan"). The 1998
Plan authorizes the grant of stock options to employees to purchase up to 781
thousand shares of Common Stock. The purchase price per share shall not be lower
than 25% of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant or
50% of the Company's book value per share of Common Stock as of the fiscal year
end preceding the date of grant. In 1999, 71 thousand shares were granted at an
average price of $17.25, representing 40% of the per share fair market value on
the date of grant. In 1998, 464 thousand shares were granted at an average price
of $52.22, representing 50% of the per share fair market value on the date of
grant. In 1997, 342 thousand shares were granted at an average price of $69.18,
representing 50% of the per share fair market value on the date of grant.

    The Data General Corporation 1994 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan
(the "1994 Plan") and the Data General Corporation 1998 Non-Employee Director
Stock Option Plan (the "1998 Director's Plan") authorize the grant of options to
acquire shares of Common Stock to each non-employee director on the date of the
director's annual election(s) to the Board of Directors. Options to acquire
1,250, 1,250 and 2,188 shares of Common Stock were granted to each Data General
director in 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively. These options were granted at
fair market value on the date of grant.

    SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

    Activity under the Plans and option activity relating to business
acquisitions for the three years ended December 31, 1999 is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       WTD. AVG.
                                                           NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
                                                            SHARES       PRICE
                                                           ---------   ---------
<S>                                                        <C>         <C>
Outstanding, December 31, 1996...........................    51,353     $ 3.92
  Granted................................................    17,358      12.74
  Canceled...............................................    (1,923)      5.30
  Exercised..............................................   (11,225)      3.24
                                                            -------     ------
Outstanding, December 31, 1997...........................    55,563       6.76
  Options relating to business acquisitions..............       429       6.67
  Granted................................................    10,418      24.13
  Canceled...............................................      (893)     10.84
  Exercised..............................................   (10,756)      3.83
                                                            -------     ------
Outstanding, December 31, 1998...........................    54,761      10.56
  Granted................................................     9,584      59.78
  Canceled...............................................    (1,214)     19.18
  Exercised..............................................   (10,631)      7.12
                                                            -------     ------
Outstanding, December 31, 1999...........................    52,500     $20.04
                                                            =======     ======
</TABLE>

                                       54
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Summarized information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 1999
is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              EXERCISABLE
                                 WEIGHTED                 --------------------
                                   AVG.       WEIGHTED                WEIGHTED
                   NUMBER OF     REMAINING      AVG.                    AVG.
   RANGE OF         OPTIONS     CONTRACTUAL   EXERCISE    NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
EXERCISE PRICES   OUTSTANDING      LIFE         PRICE      OPTIONS     PRICE
- ---------------   -----------   -----------   ---------   ---------   --------
<S>               <C>           <C>           <C>         <C>         <C>
$0.01 -   2.86        5,739         4.78        $1.32       4,870       1.36
 2.87 -   5.22       10,766         5.77         4.44       6,777       4.32
 5.23 -   8.88        5,144         6.00         5.89       2,750       5.75
 8.89 -  13.78       10,341         7.33        11.74       2,800      11.78
13.79 -  21.13        3,667         7.61        16.16       1,009      15.37
21.14 -  30.75        7,159         8.34        26.53       1,080      26.45
30.76 -  49.31          652         8.70        45.34          77      34.33
49.32 - 106.61        9,032         9.28        62.52         277      59.21
</TABLE>

    Options exercisable at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 were 19,640, 17,787
and 15,330, respectively.

    The fair value of each option granted during 1999, 1998 and 1997 is
estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with
the following assumptions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1999       1998       1997
                                                        --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                     <C>        <C>        <C>
Dividend yield........................................    None       None       None
Expected volatility...................................    52.0%      52.0%      45.0%
Risk-free interest rate...............................     5.5%       5.4%       6.1%
Expected life.........................................     5.0        5.0        5.0
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<S>                                                           <C>
Weighted average fair value of options granted at fair market value
  during:
1999........................................................   $31.72
1998........................................................   $13.04
1997........................................................   $ 5.76
Weighted average fair value of options granted below fair market value
  during:
1999........................................................   $45.94
1998........................................................   $21.30
1997........................................................   $13.94
</TABLE>

                                       55
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    Had compensation cost for the Company's 1999, 1998 and 1997 stock option
grants and employee stock purchase plan issuances been determined consistent
with SFAS 123, the Company's net income and net income per share would
approximate the pro forma amounts below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      NET INCOME PER   NET INCOME PER
                                         NET INCOME   SHARE, DILUTED    SHARE, BASIC
                                         ----------   --------------   --------------
<S>                                      <C>          <C>              <C>
As reported:
  1999.................................    $1,011         $0.92            $0.98
  1998.................................    $  654         $0.61            $0.64
  1997.................................    $  588         $0.56            $0.59
Pro forma:
  1999.................................    $  945         $0.86            $0.92
  1998.................................    $  615         $0.57            $0.61
  1997.................................    $  567         $0.54            $0.57
</TABLE>

    The effects of applying SFAS 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123 does not apply to awards made prior to
1995. Additional awards in future years are anticipated.

    EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

    The Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the 1989 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the "1989 Plan"). Under the 1989 Plan, eligible employees of the
Company may purchase shares of Common Stock, through payroll deductions, at the
lower of 85% of fair market value of the stock at the time of grant or 85% of
fair market value at the time of exercise. A total of 24 million shares have
been reserved for issuance under the 1989 Plan. Options to purchase shares are
granted twice yearly, on January 1 and July 1, and are exercisable on the
succeeding June 30 or December 31. Grants for the last three years are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999       1998       1997
                                                      --------   --------   --------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>        <C>
Shares..............................................      742      1,192      1,388
Weighted average exercise price.....................   $39.53     $13.10     $ 8.20
Weighted average fair value.........................   $19.20     $ 7.32     $ 4.77
</TABLE>

N.  LITIGATION

    The Company is a party to certain litigation which it considers routine and
incidental to its business. Management does not expect the results of any of
these actions to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
results of operations or financial condition.

O.  RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

    The Company's future results of operations involve a number of risks and
uncertainties. Factors that could affect the Company's future operating results
and cause actual results to vary materially from expectations include, but are
not limited to, dependence on suppliers, rapid technology and industry changes,
competition, competitive pricing pressures, changes in foreign laws and
regulations, risks associated with indirect channels of distribution,
historically uneven quarterly sales patterns, ability to sustain and manage
growth, dependence upon key personnel, manufacturing risks, risks associated

                                       56
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

with acquisitions, investments and alliances, enforcement of the Company's
intellectual property rights, Year 2000 issues, litigation and changes in
regulations.

P.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

    The Company operates the following three segments: storage products, server
products and services. The majority of the Company's revenues are generated from
the sale of storage hardware and software products. The Company designs,
manufactures, markets and supports open systems server products through its Data
General division. The Company also provides a wide range of services to both
storage and server customers. The following table presents revenues for groups
of similar storage products and similar services:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              1999         1998         1997
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
Enterprise storage hardware..............  $4,006,488   $3,167,125   $2,496,697
Enterprise storage software..............     821,727      445,350      176,859
Enterprise switching products (McDATA)...     142,824      178,816      189,090
CLARiiON storage products................     415,644      413,909      499,368
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
Total storage products revenue...........  $5,386,683   $4,205,200   $3,362,014
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========

Storage related services.................  $  361,806   $  190,286   $   78,085
Server related services..................     370,795      385,034      387,182
                                           ----------   ----------   ----------
Total service revenue....................  $  732,601   $  575,320   $  465,267
                                           ==========   ==========   ==========
</TABLE>

    The Company's management makes financial decisions and allocates resources
based on product segment. The Company's financial reporting focuses on the
revenues and gross profit for product segments. The Company does not allocate
marketing, engineering or administrative expenses to product segments, as
management does not use this information to measure the performance of the
operating segments. The revenues and gross margins attributable to these
segments are included in the following table:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    STORAGE      SERVER
                                    PRODUCTS    PRODUCTS   SERVICES   CONSOLIDATED
                                   ----------   --------   --------   ------------
<S>                                <C>          <C>        <C>        <C>
1999
Revenues.........................  $5,386,683   $596,326   $732,601    $6,715,610
Gross profit.....................   3,034,062    197,587    225,716     3,457,365

1998
Revenues.........................  $4,205,200   $655,638   $575,320    $5,436,158
Gross profit.....................   2,070,923    189,510    179,325     2,439,758

1997
Revenues.........................  $3,362,014   $660,570   $465,267    $4,487,851
Gross profit.....................   1,505,992    199,403    169,998     1,875,393
</TABLE>

                                       57
<PAGE>
                                EMC CORPORATION

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)

    The Company's revenues are attributed to the geographic areas according to
the location of the customers. Intercompany transfers between geographic areas
are accounted for at prices which are designed to be representative of
unaffiliated party transactions.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             EUROPE,
                                     NORTH       LATIN     MIDDLE EAST,     ASIA     INTERCOMPANY   CONSOLIDATED
                                    AMERICA     AMERICA       AFRICA      PACIFIC    ELIMINATIONS      TOTAL
                                   ----------   --------   ------------   --------   ------------   ------------
<S>                                <C>          <C>        <C>            <C>        <C>            <C>

1999
Revenues.........................  $4,257,116   $175,207    $1,844,320    $438,967     $      --     $6,715,610
Identifiable assets at year
  end............................   4,630,506     73,195     2,245,460     306,266       (82,139)     7,173,288

1998
Revenues.........................  $3,367,835   $ 89,223    $1,597,648    $381,452     $      --     $5,436,158
Identifiable assets at year
  end............................   3,954,985     38,677     1,626,823     253,144      (246,609)     5,627,020

1997
Revenues.........................  $2,708,212   $ 60,171    $1,323,173    $396,295     $      --     $4,487,851
Identifiable assets at year
  end............................   3,590,457     36,021     1,153,521     236,357      (388,420)     4,627,936
</TABLE>

Q.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Q1 1999      Q2 1999      Q3 1999      Q4 1999
                                                ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
1999
Net sales and service.........................  $1,483,305   $1,647,642   $1,708,910   $1,875,753
Gross profit..................................     717,414      836,211      886,162    1,017,578
Net income....................................     222,325      285,871      295,768      206,606
Net income per share, (diluted)...............  $     0.20   $     0.26   $     0.27   $     0.19

<CAPTION>
                                                 Q1 1998      Q2 1998      Q3 1998      Q4 1998
                                                ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------
<S>                                             <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
1998
Net sales and service.........................  $1,190,161   $1,303,272   $1,386,295   $1,556,430
Gross profit..................................     505,213      531,641      643,927      758,977
Net income....................................     141,612       34,406      204,990      272,970
Net income per share, (diluted)...............  $     0.13   $     0.03   $     0.19   $     0.25
</TABLE>

R.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)

    In January 2000, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of
Softworks, Inc. in exchange for cash. The transaction is valued at approximately
$212 million and is being accounted for using the purchase method. Softworks'
products improve the management, performance and integrity of critical corporate
information across Windows NT, UNIX, OS/390, and MVS platforms.

                                       58
<PAGE>
ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

    None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    The Company will furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a
definitive Proxy Statement (the "Proxy Statement") not later than 120 days after
the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999. The information required
by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy Statement. Also
see "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this form.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    (a)

    1.  Financial Statements

    The financial statements listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial
Statements and Schedule on page 26 are filed as part of this report.

    2.  Schedule

    The schedule listed in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and
Schedule on page 26 is filed as part of this report.

    3.  Exhibits

    See Index to Exhibits on page 62 of this report.

    The exhibits are filed with or incorporated by reference in this report.

    (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

    On October 20, 1999, EMC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K reporting under
Item 2 the acquisition of Data General Corporation.

    On November 4, 1999, EMC filed a Current Report on Form 8-K/A incorporating
pro forma combined condensed statements of operations for the six month periods
ended June 30, 1999 and 1998 and for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996, as well as a pro forma combined condensed balance sheet as of June 30,
1999, in each case giving retroactive effect to EMC's acquisition of Data
General for all periods presented.

                                       59
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, EMC Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on March 16, 2000.

<TABLE>
<S>                                          <C>  <C>
                                             EMC CORPORATION

                                             By:  /s/ RICHARD J. EGAN
                                                  ------------------------------------------
                                                  Richard J. Egan
                                                  CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
</TABLE>

                                       60
<PAGE>
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of EMC
Corporation and in the capacities indicated as of March 16, 2000.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  SIGNATURE                                           TITLE
                  ---------                                           -----
<S>                                             <C>
             /s/ RICHARD J. EGAN
- ---------------------------------------------          Chairman of the Board of Directors
               Richard J. Egan                            (Principal Executive Officer)

           /s/ MICHAEL C. RUETTGERS
- ---------------------------------------------         Chief Executive Officer and Director
             Michael C. Ruettgers

            /s/ COLIN G. PATTESON                  Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative
- ---------------------------------------------                  Officer and Treasurer
              Colin G. Patteson                           (Principal Financial Officer)

          /s/ WILLIAM J. TEUBER, JR.
- ---------------------------------------------   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
            William J. Teuber, Jr.                       (Principal Accounting Officer)

            /s/ MICHAEL J. CRONIN
- ---------------------------------------------                       Director
              Michael J. Cronin

               /s/ JOHN R. EGAN
- ---------------------------------------------                       Director
                 John R. Egan

             /s/ MAUREEN E. EGAN
- ---------------------------------------------                       Director
               Maureen E. Egan

            /s/ W. PAUL FITZGERALD
- ---------------------------------------------                       Director
              W. Paul Fitzgerald

            /s/ JOSEPH F. OLIVERI
- ---------------------------------------------                       Director
              Joseph F. Oliveri

             /s/ ALFRED M. ZEIEN
- ---------------------------------------------                       Director
               Alfred M. Zeien
</TABLE>

                                       61
<PAGE>
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

    The exhibits listed below are filed with or incorporated by reference in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

<TABLE>
<C>                     <S>
         3.1            Restated Articles of Organization of EMC Corporation.*
         3.2            Amended and Restated By-laws of EMC Corporation.*
         4.1            Form of Stock Certificate. (1)
         4.2            Indenture, dated as of March 11, 1997 between EMC
                          Corporation and State Street Bank and Trust Company,
                          Trustee. (2)
         4.3            Form of 3 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Note due 2002 of EMC
                          Corporation. (2)
         4.4            Indenture dated as of May 21, 1997 between Data General
                          Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (the "6%
                          Note Indenture").(3)
         4.5            First Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 12, 1999 to
                          the 6% Note Indenture by and between Data General
                          Corporation and The Bank of New York, as Trustee. (3)
         4.6            Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 4, 1999
                          to the 6% Note Indenture by and between EMC Corporation
                          and The Bank of New York, as Trustee.*
         4.7            Form of 6% Convertible Subordinated Note due 2004 of EMC
                          Corporation. (4)
        10.1            EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan, as amended. *
        10.2            EMC Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan for Directors, as
                          amended. *
        10.3            EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan, as amended. *
        21.1            Subsidiaries of Registrant. *
        23.1            Consent of Independent Accountants. *
        27.1            Financial Data Schedule. *
</TABLE>

- ------------------------

*   Filed herewith

(1) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
    March 31, 1988.

(2) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
    Form S-3 (No. 333-24901).

(3) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to
    a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (No. 333-86659).

(4) Incorporated by reference to the Registration Statement on Form 8-A of Data
    General Corporation filed March 16, 1998.

                                       62
<PAGE>
                        EMC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           BALANCE AT   CHARGED TO   CHARGED TO                 BALANCE
                                           BEGINNING    COSTS AND      OTHER                   AT END OF
DESCRIPTION                                OF PERIOD     EXPENSES     ACCOUNTS    DEDUCTIONS    PERIOD
- -----------                                ----------   ----------   ----------   ----------   ---------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31, 1999 allowance
  for doubtful accounts..................   $26,755       $25,817           --     $(18,293)    $34,279
Year ended December 31, 1998 allowance
  for doubtful accounts..................   $23,342       $14,150           --     $(10,737)    $26,755
Year ended December 31, 1997 allowance
  for doubtful accounts..................   $23,053       $13,171           --     $(12,882)    $23,342
</TABLE>

                                      S-1
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.1

                                           FEDERAL IDENTIFICATION NO. 04-2680009



                        THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS

                             WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                          SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH
              ONE ASHBURTON PLACE, BOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS 02108-1512

                        RESTATED ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION
                    (GENERAL LAWS, CHAPTER 156B, SECTION 74)

     We, Joseph M. Tucci, President, and Paul T. Dacier, Assistant Clerk, of EMC
Corporation located at 171 South Street, Hopkinton, Massachusetts 01748, do
hereby certify that the following Restatement of the Articles of Organization
was duly adopted at a meeting held on December 31, 1999 by a vote of the
directors.

                                    ARTICLE I

                         The name of the corporation is:

                                 EMC Corporation

                                   ARTICLE II

     The purpose of the corporation is to engage in the following business
activity(ies):

     1.   To develop, manufacture and sell computer peripheral and enhancement
          equipment and related products and to engage in all other lawful
          business related thereto.

     2.   To carry on any manufacturing, mercantile, selling, management,
          service or other business, operation or activity which may lawfully be
          carried on by a corporation organized under the Business Corporation
          Law of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, whether or not related to
          those referred to in the foregoing paragraph.


<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE III

State the total number of shares and par value, if any, of each class of stock
which the corporation is authorized to issue:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         WITHOUT PAR VALUE                                    WITH PAR VALUE
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     TYPE            NUMBER OF SHARES         TYPE            NUMBER OF SHARES       PAR VALUE
<S>                  <C>                      <C>             <C>                    <C>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Common:                                       Common:         3,000,000,000            $.01
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Preferred:                                    Preferred:      25,000,000               $.01
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

                                   ARTICLE IV

If more than one class of stock is authorized, state a distinguishing
designation for each class. Prior to the issuance of any shares of a class, if
shares of another class are outstanding, the corporation must provide a
description of the preferences, voting powers, qualifications, and special or
relative rights or privileges of that class and of each other class of which
shares are outstanding and of each series then established within any class.

          The total number of shares of all classes of capital stock which the
     Company shall be authorized to issue is 3,025,000,000 shares, consisting of
     3,000,000,000 shares of common stock, $.01 par value per share (the "Common
     Stock"), and 25,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par value per share
     (the "Series Preferred Stock").

     Common Stock

          The holders of the Common Stock shall have the exclusive right to vote
     for the election of directors and on all other matters requiring action by
     the stockholders or submitted to the stockholders for action, except as may
     be determined by votes of the directors pursuant to Article 4 hereof or as
     may otherwise be required by law, and each share of the Common Stock shall
     entitle the holder thereof to one vote.

          The holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, to the
     extent permitted by law, such dividends as may from time to time be
     declared by the directors.

          Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding
     up of the Company, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to
     receive the net assets of the Company, after the Company shall have
     satisfied or made provision for its debts and obligations and for payment
     to the holders of shares of any class or series having preferential rights
     to receive distributions of the net assets of the Company.


                                       2
<PAGE>

     Preferred Stock

          The shares of Series Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time
     in one or more series. The directors may determine, in whole or in part,
     the preferences, voting powers, qualifications and special or relative
     rights or privileges, if any, of any such series before the issuance of any
     shares of that series; provided, however, that if and to the extent that
     shares of any series have voting rights, such rights shall not be in excess
     of the greater of (i) one vote per share of such series or (ii) if the
     shares of such series are convertible into shares of Common Stock, such
     number of votes per share as equals the number of shares of Common Stock
     into which one share of such series is at the time of such vote
     convertible. The directors shall determine the number of shares
     constituting each series of Series Preferred Stock and each series shall
     have a distinguishing designation.

                                    ARTICLE V

The restrictions, if any, imposed by the Articles of Organization upon the
transfer of shares of stock of any class are:

     None.

                                   ARTICLE VI

** Other lawful provisions, if any, for the conduct and regulation of the
business and affairs of the corporation, for its voluntary dissolution, or for
limiting, defining, or regulating the powers of the corporation, or of its
directors or stockholders, or of any class of stockholders:

          (a) The corporation may carry on any business, operation or activity
     referred to in Article 2 to the same extent as might an individual, whether
     as principal, agent, contractor or otherwise, and either alone or in
     conjunction or joint venture or other arrangement with any corporation,
     association, trust, firm or individual.

          (b) The corporation may carry on any business, operation or activity
     through a wholly or partly owned subsidiary.

          (c) The corporation may be a partner in any business enterprise which
     it would have power to conduct by itself.

          (d) The directors may make, amend or repeal the bylaws in whole or in
     part, except with respect to any provision thereof which by law or the
     bylaws requires action by the stockholders.


                                       3
<PAGE>

          (e) Meetings of the stockholders may be held anywhere in the United
     States.

          (f) No stockholder shall have any right to examine any property or any
     books, accounts or other writings of the corporation if there is reasonable
     ground for belief that such examination will for any reason be adverse to
     the interests of the corporation, and a vote of the directors refusing
     permission to make such examination and setting forth that in the opinion
     of the directors such examination would be adverse to the interests of the
     corporation shall be prima facie evidence that such examination would be
     adverse to the interests of the corporation. Every such examination shall
     be subject to such reasonable regulations as the directors may establish in
     regard thereto.

          (g) The directors may specify the manner in which the accounts of the
     corporation shall be kept and may determine what constitutes net earnings,
     profits and surplus, what amounts, if any, shall be reserved for any
     corporate purpose, and what amounts, if any, shall be declared as
     dividends. Unless the board of directors otherwise specifies, the excess of
     the consideration for any share of its capital stock with par value issued
     by it over such par value shall be paid-in surplus. The board of directors
     may allocate to capital stock less than all of the consideration for any
     share of its capital stock without par value issued by it, in which case
     the balance of such consideration shall be paid-in surplus. All surplus
     shall be available for any corporate purpose, including the payment of
     dividends.

          (h) The purchase or other acquisition or retention by the corporation
     of shares of its own capital stock shall not be deemed a reduction of its
     capital stock. Upon any reduction of capital or capital stock, no
     stockholder shall have any right to demand any distribution from the
     corporation, except as and to the extent that the stockholders shall have
     provided at the time of authorizing such reduction.

          (i) The directors shall have the power to fix from time to time their
     compensation. No person shall be disqualified from holding any office by
     reason of any interest. In the absence of fraud, any director, officer or
     stockholder of this corporation, individually, or any individual having any
     interest in any concern which is a stockholder of this corporation, or any
     concern in which any of such directors, officers, stockholders or
     individuals has any interest, may be a party to, or may be pecuniarily or
     otherwise interested in, any contract, transaction or other act of this
     corporation, and

               (1) such contract, transaction or act shall not be in any way
          invalidated or otherwise affected by that fact;

               (2) no such director, officer, stockholder or individual shall be
          liable to account to this corporation for any profit or benefit
          realized through any such contract, transaction or act; and


                                       4
<PAGE>

                    (3) any such director of this corporation may be counted in
               determining the existence of a quorum at any meeting of the
               directors or of any committee thereof which shall authorize any
               such contract, transaction or act, and may vote to authorize the
               same;

          provided, however, that any contract, transaction or act in which any
          director or officer of this corporation is so interested individually
          or as a director, officer, trustee or member of any concern which is
          not a subsidiary or affiliate of this corporation, or in which any
          directors or officers are so interested as holders, collectively, of a
          majority of shares of capital stock or other beneficial interest at
          the time outstanding in any concern which is not a subsidiary or
          affiliate of this corporation, shall be duly authorized or ratified by
          a majority of the directors who are not so interested, to whom the
          nature of such interest has been disclosed and who have made any
          findings required by law;

               the term "interest" including personal interest and interest as a
               director, officer, stockholder, shareholder, trustee, member or
               beneficiary of any concern;

               the term "concern" meaning any corporation, association, trust,
               partnership, firm, person or other entity other than this
               corporation; and

               the phrase "subsidiary or affiliate" meaning a concern in which a
               majority of the directors, trustees, partners or controlling
               persons is elected or appointed by the directors of this
               corporation, or is constituted of the directors or officers of
               this corporation.

          To the extent permitted by law, the authorizing or ratifying vote of
          the holders of a majority of the shares of each class of the capital
          stock of this corporation outstanding and entitled to vote for
          directors at any annual meeting or a special meeting duly called for
          the purpose (whether such vote is passed before or after judgment
          rendered in a suit with respect to such contract, transaction or act)
          shall validate any contract, transaction or act of this corporation,
          or of the board of directors or any committee thereof, with regard to
          all stockholders of this corporation, whether or not of record at the
          time of such vote, and with regard to all creditors and other
          claimants under this corporation; provided, however, that

                    A. with respect to the authorization or ratification of
               contracts, transactions or acts in which any of the directors,
               officers or stockholders of this corporation have an interest,
               the nature of such contracts, transactions or acts and the
               interest of any director, officer or stockholder therein shall be
               summarized in the notice of any such annual or special meeting,
               or in a statement or letter accompanying such notice, and shall
               be fully disclosed at any such meeting;


                                       5
<PAGE>

                    B. the stockholders so voting shall have made any findings
               required by law;

                    C. stockholders so interested may vote at any such meeting
               except to the extent otherwise provided by law; and

                    D. any failure of the stockholders to authorize or ratify
               such contract, transaction or act shall not be deemed in any way
               to invalidate the same or to deprive this corporation, its
               directors, officers or employees of its or their right to proceed
               with such contract, transaction or act.

               No contract, transaction or act shall be avoided by reason of any
          provision of this paragraph (i) which would be valid but for such
          provision or provisions.

               (j) The corporation shall have all powers granted to corporations
          by the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, provided that no
          such power shall include any activity inconsistent with the Business
          Corporation Law or the general laws of said Commonwealth.

               (k) No director of the corporation shall be personally liable to
          the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of
          fiduciary duty as a director to the extent provided by applicable law
          notwithstanding any provision of law imposing such liability;
          provided, however, that to the extent, and only to the extent,
          required by Section 13(b) (1 1/2) or any successor provision of the
          Massachusetts Business Corporation Law, this provision shall not
          eliminate or limit the liability of a director (i) for any breach of
          the director's duty of loyalty to the corporation or its stockholders,
          (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve
          intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under
          sections 61 or 62 of the Massachusetts Business Corporation Law, or
          (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper
          personal benefit. This provision shall not be construed in any way so
          as to impose or create liability. The foregoing provisions of this
          Article 6(k) shall not eliminate the liability of a director for any
          act or omission occurring prior to the date on which this Article 6(k)
          becomes effective. No amendment to or repeal of this Article 6(k)
          shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged
          liability of any director of the corporation for or with respect to
          any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such
          amendment or repeal.

                                   ARTICLE VII

The effective date of the restated Articles of Organization of the corporation
shall be the date approved and filed by the Secretary of the Commonwealth. If a
LATER effective date is desired, specify such date which shall not be more than
THIRTY DAYS after the date of filing.


                                       6
<PAGE>

                                  ARTICLE VIII

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN ARTICLE VIII IS NOT A PERMANENT PART OF THE
ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION.

a.   The street address (post office boxes are not acceptable) of the principal
     office of the corporation IN MASSACHUSETTS is:

     171  South Street, Hopkinton, Massachusetts 01748

b.   The name, residential address and post office address of each director and
     officer of the corporation is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                             NAME               RESIDENTIAL ADDRESS               POST OFFICE ADDRESS
                             ----               -------------------               -------------------
     <S>               <C>                    <C>                            <C>
     President:        Joseph M. Tucci         10 Mountain Laurel Drive      c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Nashua, NH 03062              171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

     Treasurer:        Colin G. Patteson       5 Elizabeth Road              c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Hopkinton, MA  01748          171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

     Clerk:            Thomas J. Dougherty     247 Adams Street              c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Milton, MA  02186             171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

     Directors:        Michael C. Ruettgers    453 Bedford Road              c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Carlisle, MA  01741           171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       Michael J. Cronin       19 Wight Street               c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Medfield, MA  02052           171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       John R. Egan            22 Old Farm Road              c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Hopkinton, MA  01748          171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       Maureen Egan            8 Queen Anne Road             c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Hopkinton, MA  01748          171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       W. Paul Fitzgerald      27 Seacrest Drive             c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Orleans, MA  02653            171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       Joseph F. Oliveri       13 Steel Road                 c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Hopedale, MA  01747           171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       Richard J. Egan         8 Queen Anne Road             c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Hopkinton, MA  01748          171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

                       Alfred M. Zeien         300 Boylston Street, #1104    c/o EMC Corporation
                                               Boston, MA 02116              171 South St., Hopkinton, MA 01748

</TABLE>


c.   The fiscal year (i.e., tax year) of the corporation shall end on the last
     day of the month of: December

d.   The name and business address of the resident agent, if any, of the
     corporation is:

     CT Corporation, 2 Oliver Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02109

** We further certify that the foregoing Restated Articles of Organization
affect no amendments to the Articles of Organization of the corporation as
heretofore amended, except amendments to the following articles. Briefly
describe amendments below:

          None.


                                       7
<PAGE>

SIGNED UNDER THE PENALTIES OF PERJURY, this 1st day of February, 2000.

/s/ Joseph M. Tucci

         Joseph M. Tucci
         President

/s/ Paul T. Dacier

         Paul T. Dacier
         Assistant Clerk


                                       8
<PAGE>

                        THE COMMONWEALTH OF MASSACHUSETTS

                        RESTATED ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION

                    (GENERAL LAWS, CHAPTER 156B, SECTION 74)
                     --------------------------------------
                     --------------------------------------

                I hereby approve the within Restated Articles of
                Organization and, the filing fee in the amount of
                $___________ having been paid, said articles are
               deemed to have been filed with me this _____ day of
                               ____________, 1999.





                  EFFECTIVE DATE: _____________________________






                            WILLIAM FRANCIS GALVIN
                          SECRETARY OF THE COMMONWEALTH





                         TO BE FILLED IN BY CORPORATION
                      PHOTOCOPY OF DOCUMENT TO BE SENT TO:

                                    Paul T. Dacier
                                    Vice President and General Counsel
                                    EMC Corporation
                                    171 South Street, Hopkinton, MA  01748

                                    Telephone:  (508) 435-1000
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3.2
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2

                           AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS
                           ---------------------------

                                       of

                                 EMC CORPORATION

                       SECTION 1. ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION

     The name and purposes of the corporation shall be as set forth in the
articles of organization. These bylaws, the powers of the corporation and of its
directors and stockholders, or of any class of stockholders if there shall be
more than one class of stock, and all matters concerning the conduct and
regulation of the business and affairs of the corporation shall be subject to
such provisions in regard thereto, if any, as are set forth in the articles of
organization as from time to time in effect.

                             SECTION 2. STOCKHOLDERS

     2.1. ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of stockholders of the corporation
for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business as may
properly come before the meeting shall be held on such date and at such time as
shall be determined by the board of directors each year, which date and time may
subsequently be changed at any time, including the year any such determination
occurs.

     2.2. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Except as provided in the articles of organization
with respect to the ability of holders of preferred stock to call a special
meeting in certain circumstances, special meetings of the stockholders may be
called by the president at the direction of the chairman of the board or by a
majority of the directors, and shall be called by the clerk, or in case of the
death, absence, incapacity or refusal of the clerk, by any other officer, upon
the written application of stockholders who hold eighty-five percent (85%) in
interest of the capital stock of the corporation entitled to be voted at the
proposed meeting. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the
proposed meeting and may designate the place, date and hour of such meeting;
provided, however, that no such request shall designate a date not a full
business day or an hour not within normal business hours as the date or hour of
such meeting.

As used in these bylaws, the expression "business day" means a day other than a
day which, at a particular place, is a public holiday or a day other than a day
on which banking institutions at such place are allowed or required, by law or
otherwise, to remain closed.

     2.3. PLACE OF MEETING; ADJOURNMENT. Meetings of the stockholders may be
held at the principal office of the corporation in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, or at such places within or without the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts as may be


<PAGE>

specified in the notices of such meetings; provided, that, when any meeting is
convened, the chairman of the board or other presiding officer may adjourn the
meeting for a period of time not to exceed 30 days if (a) no quorum is present
for the transaction of business or (b) the chairman of the board or other
presiding officer determines that adjournment is necessary or appropriate to
enable the stockholders (i) to consider fully information which such officer
determines has not been made sufficiently or timely available to stockholders or
(ii) otherwise to exercise effectively their voting rights. The chairman of the
board or other presiding officer in such event shall announce the adjournment
and date, time and place of reconvening and shall cause notice thereof to be
posted at the place of meeting designated in the notice which was sent to the
stockholders, and if such date is more than 10 days after the original date of
the meeting, the clerk shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in
Section 2.4.

     2.4. NOTICE OF MEETINGS. A written or electronic notice of each meeting of
stockholders, stating the place, date and hour and the purposes of the meeting,
shall be given at least seven days before the meeting to each stockholder
entitled to vote thereat and to each stockholder who, by law, by the articles of
organization or by these bylaws, is entitled to notice, by leaving such notice
with such stockholder or at such stockholder's residence or usual place of
business, by mailing it, postage prepaid, addressed to such stockholder at such
stockholder's address as it appears in the records of the corporation or by
sending such notice electronically to such stockholder's e-mail address as it
appears in the records of the corporation. Such notice shall be given by the
clerk or an assistant clerk or by an officer designated by the directors.
Whenever notice of a meeting is required to be given to a stockholder under any
provision of the Business Corporation Law of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
or of the articles of organization or these bylaws, a written waiver thereof,
executed before or after the meeting by such stockholder or such stockholder's
attorney thereunto authorized and filed with the records of the meeting, shall
be deemed equivalent to such notice.

     No business may be transacted at a meeting of stockholders except that (a)
specified in the notice thereof, or in a supplemental notice given also in
compliance with the provisions hereof, (b) brought before the meeting by or at
the direction of the board of directors or the presiding officer, or (c)
properly brought before the meeting by or on behalf of any stockholder who shall
have been a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for
in this Section 2.4 and who shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat and
who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.4 or, with
respect to the election of directors, Section 3.2 of these bylaws. In addition
to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before
a meeting by a stockholder (other than a stockholder proposal included in the
corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")), the stockholder must
have given timely notice thereof in writing to the clerk of the corporation. In
order to be timely given, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed
and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation (a) not less
than 95 nor more than 125 days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately
preceding annual meeting of


                                       2
<PAGE>

stockholders of the corporation or (b) in the case of a special meeting or if
the annual meeting is called for a date (including any change in a date
determined by the board pursuant to Section 2.1) not within 30 days before or
after such anniversary date, not later than the close of business on the 10th
day following the day on which notice of the date of such meeting was mailed or
public disclosure of the date of such meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
Such stockholder's notice to the clerk shall set forth as to each matter the
stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting (a) a brief description of the
business desired to be brought before the meeting and the reasons for conducting
such business at the meeting, (b) the name and record address of the stockholder
proposing such business, (c) the class and number of shares of capital stock of
the corporation held of record, owned beneficially and represented by proxy by
such stockholder as of the record date for the meeting (if such date shall then
have been made publicly available) and as of the date of such notice by the
stockholder, and (d) all other information which would be required to be
included in a proxy statement or other filings required to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission if, with respect to any such item of
business, such stockholder were a participant in a solicitation subject to
Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act (the "Proxy Rules").

     Notwithstanding anything in these bylaws to the contrary, no business shall
be conducted at any meeting of stockholders except in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this Section 2.4; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that nothing in
this Section 2.4 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of
any business properly brought before such meeting.

     The chairman of the board or other presiding officer of the meeting may, if
the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not
properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures,
and if such officer should so determine, such officer shall so declare to the
meeting and that business shall be disregarded.

     2.5. QUORUM OF STOCKHOLDERS. At any meeting of stockholders, a quorum shall
consist of a majority in interest of all stock issued and outstanding and
entitled to vote at the meeting, except when a larger quorum is required by law,
by the articles of organization or by these bylaws. Stock owned directly or
indirectly by the corporation, if any, shall not be deemed outstanding for this
purpose. Any meeting may be adjourned from time to time by a majority of the
votes properly cast upon the question, whether or not a quorum is present, and
the meeting may be held as adjourned without further notice.

     2.6. ACTION BY VOTE. When a quorum is present at any meeting of
stockholders, a plurality of the votes properly cast for election to any office
shall elect to such office, and a majority of the votes properly cast upon any
question other than an election to an office shall decide the question, except
when a larger vote is required by law, by the articles of organization or by
these bylaws. No ballot shall be required for


                                       3
<PAGE>

any election unless requested by a stockholder present or represented at the
meeting and entitled to vote in the election.

     2.7. VOTING. Stockholders entitled to vote shall have one vote for each
share of stock entitled to vote held by them of record according to the records
of the corporation, unless otherwise provided by the articles of organization.
The corporation shall not, directly or indirectly, vote any share of its own
stock.

     2.8. ACTION BY WRITING. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any
meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting if all stockholders
entitled to vote on the matter consent to the action in writing and the written
consents are filed with the records of the meetings of stockholders. Such
consents shall be treated for all purposes as a vote at a meeting.

     2.9. PROXIES. To the extent permitted by law, stockholders entitled to vote
may vote either in person or by proxy (which proxy may be authorized in writing,
by telephone or by electronic means). No proxy dated more than six months before
the meeting named therein shall be valid. Unless otherwise specifically limited
by their terms, such proxies shall entitle the holders thereof to vote at any
adjournment of such meeting but shall not be valid after the final adjournment
of such meeting.

                          SECTION 3. BOARD OF DIRECTORS

     3.1. NUMBER. The number of directors shall be fixed at any time or from
time to time only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors then in
office, but shall be not less than three, except that whenever there shall be
only two stockholders the number of directors shall be not less than two and
whenever there shall be only one stockholder there shall be at least one
director; no decrease in the number of directors shall shorten the term of any
incumbent director. No director need be a stockholder of the corporation.

     3.2. NOMINATIONS FOR DIRECTOR. Only persons who are nominated in accordance
with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors,
except as provided in the articles of organization with respect to nominations
by holders of preferred stock in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons
for election to the board of directors at the annual meeting of stockholders may
be made at such annual meeting (a) by or at the direction of the board of
directors by any nominating committee or person appointed by the board or (b) by
any stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this
Section 3.2 and who shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat and who
complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 3.2. Nominations
by stockholders shall be made only after giving timely notice in writing to the
clerk of the corporation. In order to be timely given, a stockholder's notice
shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices
of the corporation (a) not less than 95 nor more than 125 days prior to the
anniversary


                                       4
<PAGE>

date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders of the
corporation or (b) if the annual meeting is called for a date (including any
change in a date determined by the board pursuant to Section 2.1) not within 30
days before or after such anniversary date, not later than the close of business
on the 10th day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was
mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever first
occurs. Such stockholder's notice to the clerk shall set forth (a) as to each
person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a
director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the
person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the
class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation, if any, which
are beneficially owned by the person, (iv) any other information regarding the
nominee as would be required to be included in a proxy statement or other
filings required to be filed pursuant to the Proxy Rules, and (v) the consent of
each nominee to serve as a director of the corporation if so elected; and (b) as
to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and record address of the
stockholder, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the
corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder as of the record
date for the meeting (if such date shall then have been made publicly available)
and as of the date of such notice, (iii) a representation that the stockholder
intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or
persons specified in the notice, (iv) a representation that the stockholder (and
any party on whose behalf such stockholder is acting) is qualified at the time
of giving such notice to have such individual serve as the nominee of such
stockholder (and any party on whose behalf such stockholder is acting) if such
individual is elected, accompanied by copies of any notifications or filings
with, or orders or other actions by, and governmental authority which are
required in order for such stockholder (and any party on whose behalf such
stockholder is acting) to be so qualified, (v) a description of all arrangements
or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person
or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or
nominations are to be made by such stockholder, and (vi) such other information
regarding such stockholder as would be required to be included in a proxy
statement or other filings required to be filed pursuant to the Proxy Rules. The
corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information
as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of
such proposed nominee to serve as director. No person shall be eligible for
election as a director unless nominated in accordance with the provisions set
forth herein.

     The chairman of the board or other presiding officer of the meeting may, if
the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was
not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, and if such officer should
so determine, such officer shall so declare to the meeting and the defective
nomination shall be disregarded.

     3.3. POWERS. Except as reserved to the stockholders by law, by the articles
of organization or by these bylaws, the business of the corporation shall be
managed by the


                                       5
<PAGE>

directors who shall have and may exercise all the powers of the corporation. In
particular, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the directors
may at any time issue all or from time to time any part of the unissued capital
stock of the corporation from time to time authorized under the articles of
organization and may determine, subject to any requirements of law, the
consideration for which stock is to be issued and the manner of allocating such
consideration between capital and surplus.

     3.4 RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL. Any director may resign at any time by
delivering a resignation in writing to the president, the treasurer or the clerk
or to a meeting of the directors. Such resignation shall be effective upon
receipt unless specified to be effective at some other time. Any director or
directors or the entire board of directors may be removed from office (a) only
for Cause (as defined in Section 50A of the Business Corporation Law of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts) by the affirmative vote of a majority of the
shares entitled to vote at an election of directors and (b) only after
reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard by the stockholders. No
director resigning, and (except where a right to receive compensation shall be
expressly provided in a duly authorized written agreement with the corporation)
no director removed, shall have the right to any compensation as such director
for any period following such director's removal, or any right to damages on
account of such removal, whether such director's compensation be by the month or
by the year or otherwise, unless in the case of a resignation, the directors, or
in case of a removal, the stockholders, shall in their discretion provide for
compensation.

     3.5 VACANCIES. Vacancies and newly created directorships, whether resulting
from an increase in the size of the board of directors, the death, resignation,
disqualification or removal of a director or otherwise, shall be filled solely
by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors then in office,
even though less than a quorum of the board of directors. Any director elected
in accordance with this Section 3.5 shall hold office for the remainder of the
full term of the class of directors in which the vacancy occurred or the new
directorship was created and until such director's successor shall have been
elected and qualified.

     3.6. COMMITTEES. The directors may, by vote of a majority of the directors
then in office, elect from their number an executive committee and other
committees and delegate to any such committee or committees some or all of the
power of the directors except those which by law, by the articles of
organization or by these bylaws they are prohibited from delegating. Except as
the directors may otherwise determine, any such committee may make rules for the
conduct of its business, but unless otherwise provided by the directors or such
rules, its business shall be conducted as nearly as may be in the same manner as
is provided by these bylaws for the conduct of business by the directors.

     3.7. REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the directors may be held
without call or notice at such places and at such times as the directors may
from time to time determine, provided that reasonable notice of the first
regular meeting following any such determination shall be given to absent
directors. A regular meeting of the directors may


                                       6
<PAGE>

be held without call or notice immediately after and at the same place as the
annual meeting of the stockholders.

     3.8. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the directors may be held at any
time and at any place designated in the call of the meeting, when called by the
president or the treasurer or by two or more directors, reasonable notice
thereof being given to each director by the secretary or an assistant secretary,
or, if there be none, by the clerk or an assistant clerk, or by the officer or
one of the directors calling the meeting.

     3.9. NOTICE. It shall be sufficient notice to a director to send notice by
mail or express overnight courier at least forty-eight hours or by facsimile at
least twenty-four hours before the meeting addressed to a director at such
director's usual or last known business or residence address or to give notice
to a director in person or by telephone at least twenty-four hours before the
meeting. Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director if a written
waiver of notice, executed by such director before or after the meeting, is
filed with the records of the meeting, or to any director who attends the
meeting without protesting prior thereto or at its commencement the lack of
notice to such director. Neither notice of a meeting nor a waiver of a notice
need specify the purposes of the meeting.

     3.10. QUORUM. At any meeting of the directors a majority of the directors
then in office shall constitute a quorum. Any meeting may be adjourned from time
to time by a majority of the votes cast upon the question, whether or not a
quorum is present, and the meeting may be held as adjourned without further
notice.

     3.11. ACTION BY VOTE. When a quorum is present at any meeting, a majority
of the directors present may take any action, except when a larger vote is
required by law, by the articles of organization or by these bylaws.

     3.12. ACTION BY WRITING. Unless the articles of organization otherwise
provide, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the
directors may be taken without a meeting if all the directors consent to the
action in writing and the written consents are filed with the records of the
meetings of the directors. Such consents shall be treated for all purposes as a
vote taken at a meeting.

     3.13. PRESENCE THROUGH COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. Unless otherwise provided
by law or by the articles of organization, members of the board of directors may
participate in a meeting of such board by means of a conference telephone or
similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in
the meeting can hear each other at the same time and participation by such means
shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.


                                       7
<PAGE>

                         SECTION 4. OFFICERS AND AGENTS

     4.1. ENUMERATION; QUALIFICATION. The officers to the corporation shall be a
president, a treasurer, a clerk, and such other officers, if any, as the
incorporators at their initial meeting, or the directors from time to time, may
in their discretion elect or appoint. The corporation may also have such agents,
if any, as the incorporators at their initial meeting, or the directors from
time to time, may in their discretion appoint. Any officer may be but none need
be a director or stockholder of the corporation. The clerk shall be a resident
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts unless the corporation has a resident agent
appointed for the purpose of service of process. Any two or more offices may be
held by the same person. Any officer may be required by the directors to give
bond for the faithful performance of such officer's duties to the corporation in
such amount and with such sureties as the directors may determine.

     4.2. POWERS. Subject to law, to the articles of organization and to these
bylaws, each officer shall have, in addition to the duties and powers herein set
forth, such duties and powers as are commonly incident to such individual's
office and such duties and powers as the directors may from time to time
designate.

     4.3. ELECTION. The president, the treasurer and the clerk shall be elected
annually by the directors at their first meeting following the annual meeting of
the stockholders. Other officers, if any, may be elected or appointed by the
board of directors at said meeting or at any other time.

     4.4. TENURE. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the articles of
organization or by these bylaws, the president, the treasurer and the clerk
shall hold office until the first meeting of the board of directors following
the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until their respective
successors are chosen and qualified or until such officer dies, resigns, is
removed (whether or not such individual remains in a different capacity within
the corporation (either as an officer or employee)) or becomes disqualified, and
each other officer shall hold office until such officer dies, resigns, is
removed or becomes disqualified unless a shorter period shall have been
specified by the terms of such officer's election or appointment. Each agent
shall retain authority as an agent at the pleasure of the directors.

     4.5 RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL. Any officer may resign at any time by
delivering a resignation in writing to the president, the treasurer or the clerk
or to a meeting of the directors. Such resignation shall be effective upon
receipt unless specified to be effective at some other time. The directors may
remove (whether or not such individual remains in a different capacity within
the corporation (either as an officer or employee)) any officer elected by them
with or without cause by the vote of the majority of the directors then in
office. An officer may be removed for cause only after reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard before the directors. No officer resigning, and (except
where a right to receive compensation shall be expressly provided in a duly
authorized written agreement with the corporation) no officer removed, shall
have the right to any compensation as such officer for any period following such
removal, or any


                                       8
<PAGE>

right to damages on account of such removal, whether such officer's compensation
be by the month or by the year or otherwise, unless the directors in their
discretion provide for compensation.

     4.6. VACANCIES. If the office of any officer becomes vacant, the directors
may elect or appoint a successor by vote of a majority of the directors present.
Each such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term, and in the case of
the president, the treasurer and the clerk, until such individual's successor is
chosen and qualified, or in each case until the successor sooner dies, resigns,
is removed (whether or not such individual remains in a different capacity
within the corporation (either as an officer or an employee)) or becomes
disqualified.

     4.7. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The chief executive officer of the
corporation shall be the president or such other officer as is designated by the
directors and shall, subject to the control of the directors, have general
charge and supervision of the business of the corporation and, except as the
directors shall otherwise determine, preside at all meetings of the stockholders
and of the directors. If no such designation is made, the president shall be the
chief executive officer.

     4.8. PRESIDENT AND VICE PRESIDENT. The president shall have the duties and
powers specified in these bylaws and shall have such other duties and powers as
may be determined by the directors.

     Any vice presidents shall have such duties and powers as shall be
designated from time to time by the directors.

     4.9. TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS. Except as the directors shall
otherwise determine, the treasurer shall be the chief financial and accounting
officer of the corporation and shall be in charge of its funds and valuable
papers, books of account and accounting records, and shall have such other
duties and powers as may be designated from time to time by the directors.

     Any assistant treasurers shall have such duties and powers as shall be
designated from time to time by the directors.

     4.10. CLERK AND ASSISTANT CLERKS. The clerk shall record all proceedings of
the stockholders in a book or series of books to be kept therefor, which book or
books shall be kept at the principal office of the corporation or at the office
of its transfer agent or of its clerk and shall be open at all reasonable times
to the inspection of any stockholder. In the absence of the clerk from any
meeting of stockholders, an assistant clerk, or if there be none or such
assistant clerk is absent, a temporary clerk or temporary secretary chosen at
the meeting, shall record the proceedings thereof in the aforesaid book. Unless
a transfer agent has been appointed, the clerk shall keep or cause to be kept
the stock and transfer records of the corporation, which shall contain the names
and record addresses of all stockholders and the amount of stock held by each.
The clerk shall keep a true record of the proceedings of all meetings of the
directors and in the clerk's absence from any


                                       9
<PAGE>

such meeting an assistant clerk, or if there be none or such assistant clerk is
absent, a temporary clerk or temporary secretary chosen at the meeting, shall
record the proceedings thereof.

     Any assistant clerks shall have such other duties and powers as shall be
designated from time to time by the directors.

     4.11. SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. If a secretary or assistant
secretary is elected, such individual shall have the authority to keep a true
record of the proceedings of the directors and stockholders, and shall have such
other duties and powers as shall be designated from time to time by the
directors.

                            SECTION 5. CAPITAL STOCK

     5.1. NUMBER AND PAR VALUE. The total number of shares and the par value, if
any, of each class of stock which the corporation is authorized to issue shall
be as stated in the articles of organization.

     5.2. STOCK CERTIFICATES. Each stockholder shall be entitled to a
certificate stating the number and the class and the designation of the series,
if any, of the shares held by such stockholder, in such form as shall, in
conformity to law, be prescribed from time to time by the directors. Such
certificate shall be signed by the president or a vice president and by the
treasurer or an assistant treasurer. Such signatures may be facsimiles if the
certificate is signed by a transfer agent, or by a registrar, other than a
director, officer or employee of the corporation. In case any officer who has
signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed on such certificate shall
have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be
issued by the corporation with the same effect as if such individual were such
officer at the time of its issue.

     5.3. LOSS OF CERTIFICATES. In the case of the alleged loss or destruction
or the mutilation of a certificate of stock, a duplicate certificate may be
issued in place thereof, upon such conditions as the directors may prescribe.

                     SECTION 6. TRANSFER OF SHARES OF STOCK

     6.1. TRANSFER ON BOOKS. Subject to the restrictions, if any, stated or
noted on the stock certificates, shares of stock may be transferred on the books
of the corporation by the surrender to the corporation or its transfer agent of
the certificate therefor properly endorsed or accompanied by a written
assignment and power of attorney properly executed, with necessary transfer
stamps affixed, and with such proof of the authenticity of signature as the
directors or the transfer agent of the corporation may reasonably require.
Except as may otherwise be required by law, by the articles of organization or
by these bylaws, the corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of
stock as


                                       10
<PAGE>

shown on its books as the owner of such stock for all purposes, including the
payment of dividends and the right to receive notice and to vote with respect
thereto, regardless of any transfer, pledge or other disposition of such stock
until the shares have been transferred on the books of the corporation in
accordance with the requirements of these bylaws. It shall be the duty of each
stockholder to notify the corporation of such stockholder's address.

     6.2. RECORD DATE AND CLOSING TRANSFER BOOKS. The directors may fix in
advance a time, which shall not be more than sixty days before the date of any
meeting of stockholders or the date for the payment of any dividend or making of
any distribution to stockholders or the last day on which the consent or dissent
of stockholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose, as the record date
for determining the stockholders having the right to notice of and to vote at
such meeting and any adjournment thereof or the right to receive such dividend
or distribution or the right to give such consent or dissent, and in such case
only stockholders of record on such record date shall have such right,
notwithstanding any transfer of stock on the books of the corporation after the
record date; or without fixing such record date the directors may for any of
such purposes close the transfer books for all or any part of such period. If no
record date is fixed and the transfer books are not closed:

     (1) The record date for determining stockholders having the right to notice
of and to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on
the date next preceding the date on which notice is given; and

     (2) The record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose
shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors
acts with respect thereto.

              SECTION 7. INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS

     The corporation shall, to the extent legally permissible, indemnify each of
its directors and officers (including persons who act at its request as
directors, officers or trustees of another organization or in any capacity with
respect to any employee benefit plan) against all liabilities and expenses,
including amounts paid in satisfaction of judgments, in compromise or as fines
and penalties, and counsel fees, reasonably incurred by such director or officer
in connection with the defense or disposition of any action, suit or other
proceeding, whether civil or criminal, in which such director or officer may be
involved or with which such director or officer may be threatened, while in
office or thereafter, by reason of such individual being or having been such a
director or officer, except with respect to any matter as to which such director
or officer shall have been adjudicated in any proceeding not to have acted in
good faith in the reasonable belief that such individual's action was in the
best interests of the corporation (any person serving another organization in
one or more of the indicated capacities at the request of the corporation who
shall have acted in good faith in the reasonable belief that such individual's
action was in the best interests of such other organization to be deemed as
having acted in such manner with respect to the corporation) or, to the extent
that such


                                       11
<PAGE>

matter relates to service with respect to any employee benefit plan, in the best
interests of the participants or beneficiaries of such employee benefit plan;
provided, however, that as to any matter disposed of by a compromise payment by
such director or officer, pursuant to a consent decree or otherwise, no
indemnification either for said payment or for any other expenses shall be
provided unless such compromise shall be approved as in the best interests of
the corporation, after notice that it involves such indemnification: (a) by a
disinterested majority of the directors then in office; or (b) by a majority of
the disinterested directors then in office, provided that there has been
obtained an opinion in writing of independent legal counsel to the effect that
such director or officer appears to have acted in good faith in the reasonable
belief that such individual's action was in the best interests of the
corporation; or (c) by the holders of a majority of the outstanding stock at the
time entitled to vote for directors, voting as a single class, exclusive of any
stock owned by any interested director or officer. Expenses, including counsel
fees, reasonably incurred by any director or officer in connection with the
defense or disposition of any such action, suit or other proceeding may be paid
from time to time by the corporation in advance of the final disposition thereof
upon receipt of an undertaking by such director or officer to repay to the
corporation the amounts so paid by the corporation if it is ultimately
determined that indemnification for such expenses is not authorized under this
Section 7. The right of indemnification hereby provided shall not be exclusive
of or affect any other rights to which any director or officer may be entitled.
As used in this Section, the terms, "director" and "officer" include their
respective heirs, executors and administrators, and an "interested" director or
officer is one against whom in such capacity the proceedings in question or
another proceeding on the same or similar grounds is then pending. Nothing
contained in this Section shall affect any rights to indemnification to which
corporate personnel other than directors or officers may be entitled by contract
or otherwise under law.

                            SECTION 8. CORPORATE SEAL

     The seal of the corporation shall, subject to alteration by the directors,
consist of a flat-faced circular die with the word "Massachusetts", together
with the name of the corporation and the year of its organization, cut or
engraved thereon.

                         SECTION 9. EXECUTION OF PAPERS

     Except as the directors may generally or in particular cases authorize the
execution thereof in some other manner, all deeds, leases, transfers, contracts,
bonds, notes, checks, drafts and other obligations made, accepted or endorsed by
the corporation shall be signed by the president or by one of the vice
presidents or by the treasurer.


                                       12
<PAGE>

                             SECTION 10. FISCAL YEAR

     The fiscal year of the corporation shall end on December 31.

                             SECTION 11. AMENDMENTS

     These bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed at any annual or special
meeting of the stockholders called for the purpose, of which the notice shall
specify the subject matter of the proposed alteration, amendment or repeal or
the sections to be affected thereby, by vote of the stockholders. These bylaws
may also be altered, amended or repealed by vote of a majority of the directors
then in office, except that the directors shall not take any action which
provides for indemnification of directors nor any action to amend this Section
11, and except that the directors shall not take any action unless permitted by
law.

     Any bylaw so altered, amended or repealed by the directors may be further
altered or amended or reinstated by the stockholders in the above manner.

            SECTION 12. MASSACHUSETTS CONTROL SHARE ACQUISITIONS ACT

     The provisions of Chapter 110D shall not apply to control share
acquisitions of the corporation.

     If the provisions of Chapter 110D shall become applicable to control share
acquisitions of the corporation through amendment of these bylaws or otherwise,
the following provisions shall apply:

     (a)  The corporation is authorized to redeem shares acquired in a control
          share acquisition to the extent and in accordance with the procedures
          specified in Section 6 of Chapter 110D and in this Section.

     (b)  The additional procedures for redemption specified in this Section are
          as follows:

          (i)  Fair value shall be determined by the board of directors or a
               committee of the board of directors of the corporation, and the
               amount so determined shall be included in the notice of
               redemption given by the corporation pursuant to Section 6 of
               Chapter 110D.

          (ii) The person whose shares are being redeemed (the "Holder") may
               within ten days after the date of the notice of redemption advise
               the corporation in writing that the Holder believes that the
               value so determined is not fair, and in such event the
               corporation shall,


                                       13
<PAGE>

               within the 30-day period following its receipt of the Holder's
               notice, permit the Holder to submit such written and oral
               evidence of value as the Holder may wish and the board of
               directors or committee considers appropriate. The board of
               directors or committee shall affirm or revise its determination
               of fair value within fifteen days after the completion of the
               30-day period, and shall promptly advise the Holder in writing of
               its decision.

          (iii) The notice of redemption shall specify a redemption date, which
               shall be 30 days after the date of the notice (or the first
               business day after the 30-day period), and a redemption office,
               which shall be the principal office of the corporation or an
               office of a commercial bank specified by the corporation in the
               notice. The redemption date so fixed shall not be deferred by a
               request of the Holder for a redetermination of fair value. The
               Holder shall cause the certificate or certificates representing
               the shares being redeemed to be delivered to the redemption
               office not later than the redemption date, duly endorsed or
               assigned for transfer, with signature guaranteed, if such an
               endorsement or assignment is required in the notice of
               redemption.

          (iv) The certificate or certificates representing the shares being
               redeemed having been deposited in accordance with item (iii)
               above, the redemption price shall be paid by the corporation on
               the redemption date specified in its notice of redemption or such
               later date as the redemption price may be determined if the
               Holder has duly requested a redetermination of fair value.

          (v)  Notice of redemption having been given, from and after the
               redemption date the shares being redeemed shall no longer be
               deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holder or holders
               thereof as a stockholder or stockholders of the corporation shall
               cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. If the
               corporation shall default in payment of the redemption price,
               interest shall accrue thereon from the date of default at the
               base or prime rate of the corporation's principal lending bank or
               if none, the base or prime rate of Fleet Bank or its successor,
               as in effect from time to time during the period of default.

          (vi) Notice given by the corporation by first class mail or delivered
               in person on the basis of a good faith determination by the
               corporation of the identity and address of the person who had
               made a control share acquisition shall be deemed to have been
               duly given.


                                       14
<PAGE>

          (vii) Any person who makes a control share acquisition of the
               corporation shall be deemed to have consented to and shall be
               bound by the provisions of this Section and shall indemnify and
               hold the corporation harmless from and against any damage, loss
               or expense which the corporation may suffer as a result of any
               non-compliance with the provisions of this Section.

     References in this Section to Chapter 110D mean Chapter 110D of the
Massachusetts General Laws as in effect from time to time.

               SECTION 13. MASSACHUSETTS BUSINESS COMBINATION ACT

     The provisions of Chapter 110F of the Massachusetts General Laws shall not
apply to "business combinations" (as defined therein) involving the corporation.

                                       15
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.6
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 4.6
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                     EXHIBIT 4.6

                          SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
                          -----------------------------

     SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of November 4, 1999, by and among
EMC Corporation, a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), as successor in
interest to Data General Corporation ("Data General"), and The Bank of New York,
as Trustee (the "Trustee"), under the Indenture dated as of May 21, 1997, as
supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 12, 1999,
by and between Data General and the Trustee (the "Indenture").

     WHEREAS, the Indenture was authorized, executed and delivered by Data
General to provide for the issuance by Data General of Data General's 6%
Convertible Subordinated Notes Due 2004 (the "Notes"); and

     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 6.7 of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the
"Merger Agreement") dated as of August 6, 1999 by and among the Company, Emerald
Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company ("Merger Sub"), and Data General, Data General may be merged with and
into the Company with the Company surviving the merger; and

     WHEREAS, the merger of Data General with and into the Company, with the
Company surviving the merger, has become effective.

     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH, that, in
consideration of the premises, it is mutually agreed, for the benefit of each
other and for the equal and proportionate benefit of all holders from time to
time of the Notes, as follows:

                                   ARTICLE I

     SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS

     Terms defined in the Indenture and used without other definition herein
have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.

     SECTION 1.2 EXPRESS ASSUMPTION.

     The Company hereby expressly assumes the due and punctual performance and
observance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be
performed by Data General.


<PAGE>

                                   ARTICLE II

                                  MISCELLANEOUS

     SECTION 1. SEVERABILITY.

     In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of
the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.

     SECTION 2. GOVERNING LAW.

     THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO
CONSTRUE THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.

     SECTION 3. RATIFICATION.

     This Second Supplemental Indenture is a supplement to the Indenture. As
supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture is in all
respects ratified, approved and confirmed and the Indenture and this Second
Supplemental Indenture shall together constitute one and the same instrument.

     SECTION 4. COUNTERPART ORIGINALS.

     The parties may sign any number of copies of this Second Supplemental
Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together
represent the same agreement.

     SECTION 5. THE TRUSTEE.

     The Trustee shall not be responsible in any matter whatsoever for or in
respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture or
for or in respect of the Recitals contained herein.


<PAGE>

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, EMC CORPORATION has caused this Second Supplemental
Indenture to be signed in its corporate name and acknowledged by one of its duly
authorized officers; and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee, has caused this
Indenture to be signed and acknowledged by one of its duly authorized
signatories as of the day and year first above written.

                                 EMC CORPORATION

                                 By: /s/  Paul T. Dacier

                                       Paul T. Dacier
                                       Senior Vice President and General Counsel

                                 THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
                                        as Trustee

                                 By: /s/ Mary Jane Schmalzel

                                        Mary Jane Schmalzel
                                        Vice President
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.1

                                 EMC CORPORATION

               1985 STOCK OPTION PLAN, as amended December 1, 1999

1. PURPOSE.

     The purpose of the EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan is to enable EMC
Corporation to provide a special incentive to a limited number of key employees
of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who are in a position to have a
significant effect upon the Company's business and earnings. In order to
accomplish this purpose, the Plan authorizes the grant to such key employees of
options to purchase Common Stock of the Company. Increased ownership of Common
Stock will provide such key employees with an additional incentive to take into
account the long-term interests of the Company.

2. DEFINITIONS.

     As used herein, the following words or terms have the meanings set forth
below. The masculine gender is used throughout the Plan but is intended to apply
to members of both sexes.

     2.1  "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

     2.2 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time, or any successor statute.

     2.3 "Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors to
administer the Plan or the Board of Directors as a whole if no appointment is
made.

     2.4  "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.

     2.5 "Company" means EMC Corporation, a corporation established under the
laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

         2.6 "Fair Market Value" in the case of a share of Common Stock on a
particular day, means the fair market value as determined from time to time by
the Board of Directors or, where appropriate, by the Committee, taking into
account all information which the Board of Directors, or the Committee,
considers relevant.

     2.7 "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option that satisfies the
requirements of Section 422 of the Code.

     2.8 "Participant" means an individual holding a stock option or stock
options granted to him under the Plan.


<PAGE>

     2.9 "Plan" means the EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan set forth
herein.

     2.10 "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" means a corporation or corporations in
which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing 50 percent or
more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock.

     2.11 "Ten Percent Stockholder" means any person who, at the time an option
is granted, owns or is deemed to own stock (as determined in accordance with
Sections 422 and 424 of the Code) possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the
total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or its parent
or a subsidiary.

3. ADMINISTRATION.

     3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee and, to the extent
provided herein, the Board of Directors. A majority of the members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all determinations of the Committee
shall be made by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee
under the Plan may be made without notice or meeting of the Committee by a
writing signed by a majority of the Committee members.

     3.2 Subject to the provisions set forth herein, each of the Committee and
the Board of Directors shall have full authority to determine the provisions of
options to be granted under the Plan. Subject to the provisions set forth
herein, the Committee shall have full authority to interpret the terms of the
Plan and of options granted under the Plan, to adopt, amend and rescind rules
and guidelines for the administration of the Plan and for its own acts and
proceedings and to decide all questions and settle all controversies and
disputes which may arise in connection with the Plan; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
any change to the terms of an option granted hereunder shall be approved by the
Board of Directors to the extent such change would be deemed to be a new option
grant or such terms relate to a subsequent transaction that would not be exempt
from Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the absence of such
approval.

     3.3 The decision of the Committee or the Board of Directors, as applicable,
on any matter as to which the Committee or the Board of Directors, as
applicable, is given authority under subsection 3.2 shall be final and binding
on all persons concerned.

     3.4 Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any officer or employee, or
his legal representatives or assigns, any right to participate in the Plan,
except to such extent, if any, as the Committee or the Board, as applicable, may
have determined or approved pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.


                                       2
<PAGE>

4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.

     4.1 The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be delivered upon
the exercise of options granted under the Plan shall be 144,000,000, subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.

     4.2 If any option granted under the Plan terminates without having been
exercised in full (including an option which terminates by agreement between the
Company and the Participant), the number of shares of Common Stock as to which
such option has not been exercised prior to termination shall be available for
future grants within the limits set forth in subsection 4.1.

     4.3 Shares of Common Stock delivered upon the exercise of options shall
consist of shares of authorized and unissued Common Stock, except that the Board
of Directors may from time to time in its discretion determine in any case the
shares to be so delivered shall consist of shares of authorized and issued
Common Stock reacquired by the Company and held in its Treasury. No fractional
shares of Common Stock shall be delivered upon the exercise of an option.

5. ELIGIBILITY FOR OPTIONS.

     Employees eligible to receive options under the Plan shall be those key
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who, in the opinion of
the Committee, are in a position to have a significant effect upon the Company's
business and earnings. Members of the Board of Directors of the Company or a
Subsidiary who are not employed as regular salaried officers or employees of the
Company or a Subsidiary may not participate in the Plan.

6. GRANT OF OPTIONS.

     6.1 From time to time while the Plan is in effect, each of the Committee
and the Board of Directors may, in its absolute discretion, select from among
the persons eligible to receive options (including persons to whom options were
previously granted) those persons to whom options are to be granted.

     6.2 Each of the Committee and the Board of Directors shall, in its absolute
discretion, determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to each
option granted by it under the Plan.

     6.3 No Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after May 16,
1995, but options theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.


                                       3
<PAGE>

7. PROVISIONS OF OPTIONS.

     7.1 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS OR OTHER OPTIONS. Options granted under the
Plan may be either Incentive Stock Options or options which do not qualify as
Incentive Stock Options, as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall
determine at the time of each grant of options hereunder.

     7.2 STOCK OPTION CERTIFICATES OR AGREEMENTS. Options granted under the Plan
shall be evidenced by certificates or agreements in such form as the Committee
shall from time to time approve. Such certificates or agreements shall comply
with the terms and conditions of the Plan and may contain such other provisions
not inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Plan as the Committee
shall deem advisable. In the case of options intended to qualify as Incentive
Stock Options, the certificates or agreements shall contain such provisions
relating to exercise and other matters as are required of incentive stock
options under the Code.

     7.3 TERMS AND CONDITIONS. All options granted under the Plan shall be
subject to the following terms and conditions to the extent applicable and to
such other terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith as the Committee or
the Board of Directors shall determine:

          7.3.1 Exercise Price. The exercise price per share of Common Stock
     with respect to each option shall be as determined by the Committee but in
     the case of an Incentive Stock Option not less than 100% (110% in the case
     of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) of the
     Fair Market Value per share at the time the option is granted. In the case
     of an option which does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, the
     exercise price per share of Common Stock shall be not less than par value.
     However, for those employees subject to Section 16 of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, the per share exercise price for an option which does
     not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than 50% of the
     Fair Market Value at the time the option is granted.

          7.3.2 VALUE OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO INCENTIVE STOCK
     OPTIONS. Each eligible employee may be granted Incentive Stock Options only
     to the extent that, in the aggregate under this Plan and all incentive
     stock option plans of the Company and any related corporation, such
     Incentive Stock Options do not become exercisable for the first time by
     such employee during any calendar year in a manner which would entitle the
     employee to purchase more than $100,000 in fair market value (determined at
     the time the Incentive Stock Options were granted) of Common Stock in that
     year. Any options granted to any employee in excess of such amount will be
     granted as Non-Qualified Options.

          7.3.3 PERIOD OF OPTIONS. An option shall be exercisable during such
     period of time as the Committee or the Board of Directors may specify
     (subject to subsection 7.4 below), but in the case of an Incentive Stock
     Option not after the


                                       4
<PAGE>

     expiration of ten years (five years in the case of an Incentive Stock
     Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date the option is
     granted.

          7.3.4 EXERCISE OF OPTIONS.

               7.3.4.1 Each option shall be made exercisable at such time or
          times as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall determine. In
          the case of an option made exercisable in installments, the Committee
          or the Board of Directors may later determine to accelerate the time
          at which one or more of such installments may be exercised.

               7.3.4.2 Any exercise of an option shall be in writing signed by
          the proper person and delivered or mailed to the General Counsel of
          the Company, accompanied by an option exercise notice and payment in
          full for the number of shares in respect to which the option is
          exercised.

               7.3.4.3 In the event an option is exercised by the executor or
          administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or persons
          to whom the option has been transferred by the Participant's will or
          the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company shall be
          under no obligation to deliver stock thereunder until the Company is
          satisfied that the person or persons exercising the option is or are
          the duly appointed executor or administrator of the deceased
          Participant or the person or persons to whom the option has been
          transferred by the Participant's will or by the applicable laws of
          descent and distribution.

               7.3.4.4 The Committee or the Board of Directors may at the time
          of grant condition the exercise of an option upon agreement by the
          Participant to subject the Common Stock to any restrictions on
          transfer or repurchase rights in effect on the date of exercise, upon
          representations of continued employment and upon other terms not
          inconsistent with this Plan. Any such conditions shall be set forth in
          the option certificate or other document evidencing the option.

               7.3.4.5 In the case of an option that is not an Incentive Stock
          Option, the Committee shall have the right to require that the
          individual exercising the option to remit to the Company an amount
          sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, or local withholding tax
          requirements (or makes other arrangements satisfactory to the Company
          with regard to such taxes) prior to the delivery of any Common Stock
          pursuant to the exercise of the option. In the case of an Incentive
          Stock Option, if at the time the Incentive Stock Option is exercised
          the Committee determines that under applicable law and regulations the
          Company could be liable for the withholding of any federal or state
          tax with respect to a disposition of the Common Stock received upon
          exercise, the Committee may require as a


                                       5
<PAGE>

          condition of exercise that the individual exercising the Incentive
          Stock Option agree (i) to inform the Company promptly of any
          disposition (within the meaning of Section 422 (a) (1) of the Code and
          the regulations thereunder) of Common Stock received upon exercise,
          and (ii) to give such security as the Committee deems adequate to meet
          the potential liability of the Company for the withholding of tax, and
          to augment such security from time to time in any amount reasonably
          deemed necessary by the Committee to preserve the adequacy of such
          security.

               7.3.4.6 In the case of an option that is exercised by an
          individual that is subject to taxation in a foreign jurisdiction, the
          Committee shall have the right to require the individual exercising
          the option to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any
          federal or withholding requirement of that foreign jurisdiction (or
          make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company with regard to
          such taxes prior to the delivery of any Common Stock pursuant to the
          exercise of the option).

          7.3.5 PAYMENT FOR AND DELIVERY OF STOCK. The shares of stock purchased
on any exercise of an option granted hereunder shall be paid for in full in cash
or, if permitted by the terms of the option, in shares of unrestricted Common
Stock at the time of such exercise or, if so permitted, a combination of such
cash and Common Stock. A Participant shall not have the rights of a stockholder
with respect to awards under the Plan except as to stock actually issued to him.

          7.3.6 LISTING OF STOCK, WITHHOLDING AND OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS. The
Company shall not be obligated to deliver any stock until all federal and state
laws and regulations which the Company may deem applicable have been complied
with, nor, in the event the outstanding Common Stock is at the time listed upon
any stock exchange, until the stock to be delivered has been listed or
authorized to be added to the list upon official notice of issuance to such
exchange. In addition, if the shares of stock subject to any option have not
been registered in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the
Company may require the person or persons who wishes or wish to exercise such
option to make such representation or agreement with respect to the sale of
stock acquired on exercise of the option as will be sufficient, in the opinion
of the Company's counsel, to avoid violation of said Act, and may also require
that the certificates evidencing said stock bear an appropriate restrictive
legend.

          7.3.7 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS. No option may be transferred by
the Participant otherwise than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution
or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and during the
Participant's lifetime the option may be exercised only by him or her; PROVIDED,
HOWEVER, that the Board of Directors or the Committee, as applicable, in its
discretion, may allow for transferability of non-qualified stock options by the
Participant to "Immediate Family Members". Immediate Family Members means
children,


                                       6
<PAGE>

grandchildren, spouse or common law spouse, siblings or parents of the
Participant or to bona fide trusts, partnerships or other entities controlled by
and of which the beneficiaries are Immediate Family Members of the Participant.
Any option grants that are transferable are further conditioned on the
Participant and Immediate Family Members agreeing to abide by the Company's then
current stock option transfer guidelines.

     7.3.8 DEATH. If a Participant dies at a time when he is entitled to
exercise an Incentive Stock Option, then at any time or times within three years
after his death such Incentive Stock Option may be exercised, as to all or any
of the shares which the Participant was entitled to purchase thereunder
immediately prior to his death, by his executor or administrator or the person
or persons to whom the Incentive Stock Option is transferred by will or the
applicable laws of descent and distribution, and except as so exercised such
Incentive Stock Option shall expire at the end of such three-year period. In no
event, however, may any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan be
exercised after the expiration of ten years (five years in the case of an
Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date the
Incentive Stock Option was granted.

     7.3.9 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If the employment of a Participant
terminates for any reason other than his death, all options held by the
Participant shall thereupon expire on the date of termination unless the option
by its terms, or the Committee or the Board of Directors by resolution, shall
allow the Participant to exercise any or all of the options held by him after
termination. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Incentive Stock
Option shall in any event expire at the end of three months after such
termination of employment, or after the expiration of ten years (five years in
the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from
the date the Incentive Stock Option was granted, whichever occurs first. If the
Committee or the Board of Directors so decides, an option may provide that a
leave of absence granted by the Company or Subsidiary is not a termination of
employment for the purpose of this subsection 7.3.9, and in the absence of such
a provision the Committee may in any particular case determine that such a leave
of absence is not a termination of employment for such purpose. The Committee
shall also determine all other matters relating to continuous employment.

     7.3.10 CANCELLATION AND RESCISSION OF OPTIONS. The following provisions of
this Section 7.3.10 shall apply to options granted on or after July 1, 1998 to
(i) Participants who are classified by the Company or a Subsidiary as an
executive officer, senior officer, or officer (collectively, an "Officer") of
the Company or a Subsidiary; and (ii) certain other Participants designated by
the Committee or the Board of Directors to be subject to the terms of this
Section 7.3.10 (such designated Participants together with Officers referred to
collectively as "Senior Participants"). The Committee or the Board of Directors
may cancel, rescind, suspend or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired option
at any time if the


                                       7
<PAGE>

     Senior Participant engages in "Detrimental Activity" (as defined below).
     Furthermore, in the event a Senior Participant engages in Detrimental
     Activity at any time prior to or during the six months after any exercise
     of an option, such exercise may be rescinded until the later of (i) two
     years after such exercise or (ii) two years after such Detrimental
     Activity. Upon such rescission, the Company at its sole option may require
     the Senior Participant to (i) deliver and transfer to the Company the
     shares of Common Stock received by the Senior Participant upon such
     exercise, (ii) pay to the Company an amount equal to any realized gain
     received by the Senior Participant from such exercise, or (iii) pay to the
     Company an amount equal to the market price (as of the exercise date) of
     the Common Stock acquired upon such exercise minus the respective exercise
     price. The Company shall be entitled to set-off any such amount owed to the
     Company against any amount owed to the Senior Participant by the Company.
     As used in this subsection 7.3.10, "Detrimental Activity"shall include: (i)
     the failure to comply with the terms of the Plan or certificate or
     agreement evidencing the option; (ii) the failure to comply with any term
     set forth in the Company's Key Employee Agreement (irrespective of whether
     the Senior Participant is a party to the Key Employee Agreement); (iii) any
     activity that results in termination of the Senior Participant's employment
     for cause; (iv) a violation of any rule, policy, procedure or guideline of
     the Company; or (v) the Senior Participant being convicted of, or entering
     a guilty plea with respect to a crime whether or not connected with the
     Company.

          7.3.11 JURISDICTION AND GOVERNING LAW. The parties submit to the
     exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of the
     Commonwealth of Massachusetts, County of Middlesex, to resolve issues that
     may arise out of or relate to the Plan or the same subject matter. The Plan
     shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts,
     excluding its conflicts or choice of law rules or principles that might
     otherwise refer construction or interpretation of this Plan to the
     substantive law of another jurisdiction.

     7.4 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE. The Committee shall have the authority,
either generally or in particular instances, to waive compliance by a
Participant with any obligation to be performed by him under an option and to
waive any condition or provision of an option, except that the Committee may not
(i) increase the total number of shares covered by any Incentive Stock Option
(except in accordance with Section 8), (ii) reduce the option price per share of
any Incentive Stock Option (except in accordance with Section 8) or (iii) extend
the term of any Incentive Stock Option to more than ten years, subject, however,
to the provisions of Section 10.

8. CHANGES IN STOCK.

     In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate
structure or capitalization affecting the Common Stock that becomes effective
after the adoption of


                                       8
<PAGE>

the Plan by the Board of Directors, the Committee shall make appropriate
adjustments in (i) the number and kind of shares of stock on which options may
thereafter be granted hereunder, (ii) the number and kind of shares of stock
remaining subject to each option outstanding at the time of such change and
(iii) the option price. The Committee's determination shall be binding on all
persons concerned. Subject to any required action by the stockholders, if the
Company shall be the surviving corporation in any merger or consolidation (other
than a merger or consolidation in which the Company survives but in which a
majority of its outstanding shares are converted into securities of another
corporation or are exchanged for other consideration), any option granted
hereunder shall pertain and apply to the securities which a holder of the number
of shares of stock of the Company then subject to the option would have been
entitled to receive, but a dissolution or liquidation of the Company or a merger
or consolidation in which the Company is not the surviving corporation or in
which a majority of its outstanding shares are so converted or exchanged shall
cause every option hereunder to terminate; provided that if any such
dissolution, liquidation, merger or consolidation is contemplated, the Company
shall either arrange for any corporation succeeding to the business and assets
of the Company to issue to the Participants replacement options (which, in the
case of Incentive Stock Options, satisfy, in the determination of the Committee,
the requirements of Section 424 of the Code) on such corporation's stock which
will to the extent possible preserve the value of the outstanding options or
shall make the outstanding options fully exercisable at least 20 days before the
effective date of any such dissolution, liquidation, merger or consolidation.
The existence of the Plan shall not prevent any such change or other transaction
and no Participant thereunder shall have any right except as herein expressly
set forth.

9.   EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.

     Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any grant of options confers upon any
employee of the Company or a Subsidiary any right to continued employment with
the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, nor does it interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of
any of its employees at any time.

10.  DISCONTINUANCE, CANCELLATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.

     The Committee or the Board of Directors may at any time discontinue
granting options under the Plan and, with the consent of the Participant, may at
any time cancel an existing option in whole or in part and grant another option
to the Participant for such number of shares as the Committee or the Board of
Directors specifies. The Board of Directors may at any time or times amend the
Plan for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of any changes in applicable
laws or regulations or for any other purpose which may at the time be permitted
by law or may at any time terminate the Plan as to any further grants of
options, provided that no such amendment shall without the approval of the
stockholders of the Company (a) increase the maximum number of shares available


                                       9
<PAGE>

under the Plan, (b) change the group of employees eligible to receive options
under the Plan, (c) reduce the exercise price of outstanding incentive options
or reduce the price at which incentive options may be granted, (d) extend the
time within which options may be granted, (e) alter the Plan in such a way that
incentive options granted or to be granted hereunder would not be considered
incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code, or (f) amend the
provisions of this Section 10, and no such amendment shall adversely affect the
rights of any employee (without his consent) under any option previously
granted.

11.  EFFECTIVE DATE.

     The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board of
Directors, and options may be granted under the Plan from and after the date of
such adoption; provided, however, that if prior to May 16, 1986 the stockholders
of the Company have not approved the Plan, the Plan shall terminate to the
extent that it relates to the issuance of Incentive Stock Options and all
Incentive Stock Options theretofore granted shall terminate and cease to be of
any force or effect. No Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall be
exercisable unless and until the Plan has been so approved.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.2
<TEXT>

<PAGE>


                                                                  EXHIBIT 10.2

                                 EMC CORPORATION
              1992 EMC CORPORATION STOCK OPTION PLAN FOR DIRECTORS,
                           as amended December 1, 1999

1.   PURPOSE

     The purpose of this 1992 Stock Option Plan for Directors (the "Plan") is to
advance the interests of EMC Corporation (the "Company") by enhancing the
ability of the Company to attract and retain directors who are in a position to
make significant contributions to the success of the Company and to reward
directors for such contributions through ownership of shares of the Company's
Common Stock (the "Stock").

2.   ADMINISTRATION

     The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of
the Company and the Executive Compensation and Stock Option Committee (the
"Committee") of the Board, as set forth herein. The Board and the Committee
shall each have authority, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the
Plan to grant options in accordance with the Plan to such directors as are
eligible to receive options. The Committee shall in addition have authority, not
inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, (a) to prescribe the form
or forms of instruments evidencing options and any other instruments required
under the Plan and to change such forms from time to time; (b) to adopt, amend
and rescind rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan; and (c) to
interpret the Plan and decide any questions and settle all controversies and
disputes that may arise in connection with the Plan. Such determinations of the
Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall be conclusive and shall bind
all parties. Subject to Section 7, the Committee shall also have the authority,
both generally and in particular instances, to waive compliance by a director
with any obligation to be performed by him or her under an option and to waive
any condition or provision of an option. Notwithstanding the preceding two
sentences, any change to the terms of an option granted hereunder shall be
approved by the Board to the extent such change would be deemed to be a new
option grant or such terms relate to a subsequent transaction that would not be
exempt from Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the absence
of such approval.

3.   EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF PLAN

     The Plan shall become effective on the date on which the Plan is approved
by the stockholders of the Company. No option shall be granted under the Plan
after the completion of

<PAGE>


ten years from the date on which the Plan was adopted by the Board, but options
granted may extend beyond that date.

4.   SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

     (a) NUMBER OF SHARES. Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c),
the aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be delivered upon the exercise
of options granted under the Plan shall be 7,200,000. If any option granted
under the Plan terminates without having been exercised in full, the number of
shares of Stock as to which such option was not exercised shall be available for
future grants within the limits set forth in this Section 4(a).

     (b) SHARES TO BE DELIVERED. Shares delivered under the Plan shall be
authorized but unissued Stock or, if the Board so decides in its sole
discretion, previously issued Stock acquired by the Company and held in
treasury. No fractional shares of Stock shall be delivered under the Plan.

     (c) CHANGES IN STOCK. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or
other change in corporate structure or capitalization affecting the Stock, the
number and kind of shares of stock or securities of the Company to be subject to
options then outstanding or to be granted under the Plan, and the option price,
and other relevant provisions shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee,
whose determination shall be binding on all persons.

5.   ELIGIBILITY FOR OPTIONS

     Directors eligible to receive options under the Plan ("Eligible Directors")
shall be those directors who (i) are not employees of the Company; and (ii) are
not holders of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of the Stock or persons in
control of such holders.

6.   TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS

     (a) FORMULA OPTIONS. Eligible Directors who are directors on the date of
stockholder approval of the Plan shall be awarded options to purchase up to
40,000 shares of Stock. Following stockholder approval of the plan, each newly
elected Eligible Director shall be awarded options to purchase up to 40,000
shares of Stock on the date of his or her first election.

     (b) DISCRETIONARY OPTIONS. In addition to the formula options provided for
above, the Committee or the Board may award options to purchase shares of Stock
to Eligible Directors on such terms as it may determine not inconsistent with
this Plan.

     (c) EXERCISE PRICE. The exercise price of each option shall be not less
than 50% of the fair market value per share of the Stock at the time of the
grant. For this purpose "fair market value" shall mean the last sales price of
the Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the

<PAGE>

date of the grant (based on THE WALL STREET JOURNAL report of composite
transactions) or, if the Stock is no longer listed on such Exchange, it shall
have the same meaning as it does in the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (the "Code") and the regulations thereunder applicable to incentive
options.

     (d) DURATION OF OPTIONS. The latest date on which an option may be
exercised (the "Final Exercise Date ") shall be the date which is ten years from
the date the option was granted.

     (e) EXERCISE OF OPTIONS.

     (1) Each formula option shall become exercisable in increments of 331/3% of
the shares covered thereby on each of the first through third anniversaries of
the grant. Each discretionary option shall become exercisable at such time or
times as the Committee or the Board shall determine.

     (2) Any exercise of an option shall be in writing, signed by the proper
person and delivered or mailed to the Company, accompanied by (a) an option
exercise notice and any other documents required by the Committee; and (b)
payment in full for the number of shares for which the option is exercised.

     (3) If any option is exercised by the executor or administrator of a
deceased director, or by the person or persons to whom the option has been
transferred by the director's will or the applicable laws of descent and
distribution, the Company shall be under no obligation to deliver Stock pursuant
to such exercise until the Company is satisfied as to the authority of the
person or persons exercising the option.

     (4) The Company shall have the right to settle any option, and to terminate
the rights of the holder thereof, by paying to the option holder the difference
between the fair market value of the Stock at the time of settlement and the
purchase price.

     (f) PAYMENT FOR AND DELIVERY OF STOCK. Stock purchased under the Plan shall
be paid for as follows: (i) in cash or by certified check, bank draft or money
order payable to the order of the Company; (ii) through the delivery of shares
of Stock having a fair market value on the last business day preceding the date
of exercise equal to the purchase price; or (iii) by a combination of cash and
Stock as provided in clauses (i) and (ii) above.

     An option holder shall not have the rights of a stockholder with regard to
awards under the Plan except as to Stock actually received by him or her under
the Plan.

     The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Stock (a)
until, in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all applicable Federal and state
laws and regulations have been complied with; and (b) if the outstanding Stock
is at the time listed on any stock exchange, until the shares to be delivered
have been listed or authorized to be listed on such exchange upon official
notice

<PAGE>

of issuance; and (c) until all other legal matters in connection with the
issuance and delivery of such shares have been approved by the Company's
counsel. If the sale of Stock has not been registered under the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended, the Company may require, as a condition to exercise of the
option, such representations or agreements as counsel for the Company may
consider appropriate to avoid violation of such Act and may require that the
certificates evidencing such Stock bear an appropriate legend restricting
transfer.

     (g) NONTRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS/EXCEPTIONS. No option may be transferred
by a director otherwise than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution or
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and during the director's
lifetime the option may be exercised only by him or her; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
the Board of Directors or the Committee, as applicable, in its discretion, may
allow for transferability of options by the Participant to "Immediate Family
Members." Immediate Family Members means children, grandchildren, spouse or
common law spouse, siblings or parents of the Participant or to bona fide
trusts, partnerships or other entities controlled by and of which the
beneficiaries are Immediate Family Members of the Participant. Any option grants
that are transferable are further conditioned on the Participant and Immediate
Family Members agreeing to abide by the Company's then current stock option
transfer guidelines.

     (h) DEATH. If a director dies at the time he or she is entitled to exercise
an option, then the portion formerly exercisable by the director may be
exercised by the director's executor or administrator, or by the person to whom
the option is transferred under the applicable laws of descent and distribution,
within three years of the death of the director, subject to earlier termination
of an option pursuant to Section 6(d).

     (i) OTHER TERMINATION OF STATUS OF DIRECTOR. All previously unexercised
options terminate and are forfeited automatically upon the termination of the
director's service with the Company, unless the Committee or the Board of
Directors specifies otherwise.

     (j) MERGERS, ETC. In the event of a dissolution, liquidation, consolidation
or merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, or which
results in the acquisition of substantially all of the Company's stock by a
single person or entity or by a group of persons and entities acting in concert
all outstanding options will thereupon terminate, provided at least twenty days
prior to the effective date of any such dissolution, liquidation, consolidation
or merger, the Committee or the Board may either (i) make all outstanding
options immediately exercisable or (ii) arrange to have the surviving
corporation grant replacement options for the option holders.

         (k) CANCELLATION AND RESCISSION OF OPTIONS. The following provisions of
this Section 6(k) shall apply to options granted on or after July 1. The
Committee or the Board of Directors may cancel, rescind, suspend or otherwise
limit or restrict any unexpired option at any time if the director engages in
"Detrimental Activity" (as defined below). Furthermore, in the event a director
engages in Detrimental Activity at any time prior to or during the six months
after any exercise of an option, such exercise may be rescinded until the later
of (i) two years after such

<PAGE>

exercise or (ii) two years after such Detrimental Activity. Upon such
rescission, the Company at its sole option may require the director to (i)
deliver and transfer to the Company the shares of Common Stock received by the
director upon such exercise, (ii) pay to the Company an amount equal to any
realized gain received by the director from such exercise, or (iii) pay to the
Company an amount equal to the market price (as of the exercise date) of the
Common Stock acquired upon such exercise minus the respective exercise price.
The Company shall be entitled to set-off any such amount owed to the Company
against any amount owed to the director by the Company. As used in this
subsection 6(k), "Detrimental Activity" shall include: (i) the failure to comply
with the terms of the Plan or certificate or agreement evidencing the option;
(ii) the failure to comply with any term set forth in the Company's Key Employee
Agreement (irrespective of whether the director is a party to the Key Employee
Agreement), (iii) any activity that results in termination of the director's
employment for cause; (iv) a violation of any rule, policy, procedure or
guideline of the Company; or (v) the director being convicted of, or entering a
guilty plea with respect to a crime whether or not connected with the Company.

         (l) JURISDICTION AND GOVERNING LAW. The parties submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, County of Middlesex, to resolve issues that may arise out of or
relate to the Plan or the same subject matter. The Plan shall be governed by the
laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, excluding its conflicts or choice of
law rules or principles that might otherwise refer construction or
interpretation of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.

7.   EFFECT, DISCONTINUANCE, CANCELLATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

     Neither adoption of the Plan nor the grant of options to a director shall
affect the Company's right to grant to such director or any director options
that are not subject to the Plan, to issue to such directors Stock as a bonus or
otherwise, or to adopt other plans or arrangements under which Stock may be
issued to directors.

     The Committee or the Board may at any time discontinue granting options
under the Plan. The Board may at any time, or times, amend the Plan for the
purpose of satisfying any changes in applicable laws or regulations or for any
other purpose which may at the time be permitted by law, or may at any time
terminate the Plan as to any further grants of options, provided that (except to
the extent expressly required or permitted herein above) no such amendment
shall, without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, (a) increase the
maximum number of shares available under the Plan; (b) increase the number of
options to be granted to Eligible Directors; (c) amend the definition of
Eligible Directors so as to enlarge the group of directors eligible to receive
options under the Plan; (d) reduce the price at which options may be granted
other than as permitted in the Plan; or (e) amend the provisions of this Section
7.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.3
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.3

                                 EMC CORPORATION

                1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN, as amended March 5, 2000

1. PURPOSE.

     The purpose of the EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan is to enable EMC
Corporation to provide a special incentive to a limited number of key employees
of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who are in a position to have a
significant effect upon the Company's business and earnings. In order to
accomplish this purpose, the Plan authorizes the grant to such key employees of
options to purchase Common Stock of the Company. Increased ownership of Common
Stock will provide such key employees with an additional incentive to take into
account the long-term interests of the Company.

2. DEFINITIONS.

     As used herein, the following words or terms have the meanings set forth
below. The masculine gender is used throughout the Plan but is intended to apply
to members of both sexes.

     2.1 "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

     2.2 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time, or any successor statute.

     2.3 "Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors to
administer the Plan or the Board of Directors as a whole if no appointment is
made.

     2.4 "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.

     2.5 "Company" means EMC Corporation, a corporation established under the
laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

     2.6 "Fair Market Value" in the case of a share of Common Stock on a
particular day, means the fair market value as determined from time to time by
the Board of Directors or, where appropriate, by the Committee, taking into
account all information which the Board of Directors, or the Committee,
considers relevant.

     2.7 "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option that satisfies the
requirements of Section 422 of the Code.

     2.8 "Participant" means an individual holding a stock option or stock
options granted to him under the Plan.


                                  Page 1 of 10
<PAGE>

     2.9 "Plan" means the EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan set forth
herein.

     2.10 "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" means a corporation or corporations in
which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing 50 percent or
more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock.

     2.11 "Ten Percent Stockholder" means any person who, at the time an option
is granted, owns or is deemed to own stock (as determined in accordance with
Sections 422 and 424 of the Code) possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the
total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or its parent
or a subsidiary.

3. ADMINISTRATION.

     3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee and, to the extent
provided herein, the Board of Directors. A majority of the members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all determinations of the Committee
shall be made by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee
under the Plan may be made without notice or meeting of the Committee by a
writing signed by a majority of the Committee members.

     3.2 Subject to the provisions set forth herein, each of the Committee and
the Board of Directors shall have full authority to determine the provisions of
options to be granted under the Plan. Subject to the provisions set forth
herein, the Committee shall have full authority to interpret the terms of the
Plan and of options granted under the Plan, to adopt, amend and rescind rules
and guidelines for the administration of the Plan and for its own acts and
proceedings and to decide all questions and settle all controversies and
disputes which may arise in connection with the Plan; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
any change to the terms of an option granted hereunder shall be approved by the
Board of Directors to the extent such change would be deemed to be a new option
grant or such terms relate to a subsequent transaction that would not be exempt
from Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the absence of such
approval.

     3.3 The decision of the Committee or the Board of Directors, as applicable,
on any matter as to which the Committee or the Board of Directors, as
applicable, is given authority under subsection 3.2 shall be final and binding
on all persons concerned.

     3.4 Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any officer or employee, or
his legal representatives or assigns, any right to participate in the Plan,
except to such extent, if any, as the Committee or the Board, as applicable, may
have determined or approved pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.


                                  Page 2 of 10
<PAGE>

4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.

     4.1 The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be delivered upon
the exercise of options granted under the Plan shall be 90,000,000*, subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.

     4.2 If any option granted under the Plan terminates without having been
exercised in full (including an option which terminates by agreement between the
Company and the Participant), or if shares of Common Stock are reacquired by the
Company upon the rescission of an exercise of an option, the number of shares of
Common Stock as to which an option has not been exercised prior to termination,
or have been reacquired upon the rescission of an option, shall be available for
future grants within the limits set forth in subsection 4.1.

     4.3 Shares of Common Stock delivered upon the exercise of options shall
consist of shares of authorized and unissued Common Stock, except that the Board
of Directors may from time to time in its discretion determine in any case the
shares to be so delivered shall consist of shares of authorized and issued
Common Stock reacquired by the Company and held in its Treasury. No fractional
shares of Common Stock shall be delivered upon the exercise of an option.

5. ELIGIBILITY FOR OPTIONS.

     Employees eligible to receive options under the Plan shall be those key
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who, in the opinion of
the Committee, are in a position to have a significant effect upon the Company's
business and earnings. Members of the Board of Directors of the Company or a
Subsidiary who are not employed as regular salaried officers or employees of the
Company or a Subsidiary may not participate in the Plan.

6. GRANT OF OPTIONS.

     6.1 From time to time while the Plan is in effect, each of the Committee
and the Board of Directors may, in its absolute discretion, select from among
the persons eligible to receive options (including persons to whom options were
previously granted) those persons to whom options are to be granted.

     6.2 Each of the Committee and the Board of Directors shall, in its absolute
discretion, determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to each
option granted by it under the Plan.



*Subject to stockholder approval


                                  Page 3 of 10
<PAGE>

     6.3 No Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after May 12,
2003, but options theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.

7. PROVISIONS OF OPTIONS.

     7.1 INCENTIVE STOCK OPTIONS OR OTHER OPTIONS. Options granted under the
Plan may be either Incentive Stock Options or options which do not qualify as
Incentive Stock Options, as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall
determine at the time of each grant of options hereunder.

     7.2 STOCK OPTION CERTIFICATES OR AGREEMENTS. Options granted under the Plan
shall be evidenced by certificates or agreements in such form as the Committee
shall from time to time approve. Such certificates or agreements shall comply
with the terms and conditions of the Plan and may contain such other provisions
not inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Plan as the Committee
shall deem advisable. In the case of options intended to qualify as Incentive
Stock Options, the certificates or agreements shall contain such provisions
relating to exercise and other matters as are required of incentive stock
options under the Code.

     7.3 TERMS AND CONDITIONS. All options granted under the Plan shall be
subject to the following terms and conditions to the extent applicable and to
such other terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith as the Committee or
the Board of Directors shall determine:

          7.3.1 EXERCISE PRICE. The exercise price per share of Common Stock
     with respect to each option shall be as determined by the Committee but in
     the case of an Incentive Stock Option not less than 100% (110% in the case
     of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) of the
     Fair Market Value per share at the time the option is granted. In the case
     of an option which does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, the
     exercise price per share of Common Stock shall be not less than par value.

          7.3.2 VALUE OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO INCENTIVE STOCK
     OPTIONS. Each eligible employee may be granted Incentive Stock Options only
     to the extent that, in the aggregate under this Plan and all incentive
     stock option plans of the Company and any related corporation, such
     Incentive Stock Options do not become exercisable for the first time by
     such employee during any calendar year in a manner which would entitle the
     employee to purchase more than $100,000 in fair market value (determined at
     the time the Incentive Stock Options were granted) of Common Stock in that
     year. Any options granted to an employee in excess of such amount will be
     granted as Non-Qualified Options.

                  7.3.3 PERIOD OF OPTIONS. An option shall be exercisable during
         such period of time as the Committee or Board of Directors may specify
         (subject to


                                  Page 4 of 10
<PAGE>

          subsection 7.4 below), but in the case of an Incentive Stock Option
          not after the expiration of ten years (five years in the case of an
          Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the
          date the option is granted.

               7.3.4 EXERCISE OF OPTIONS.

                    7.3.4.1 Each option shall be made exercisable at such time
               or times as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall
               determine. In the case of an option made exercisable in
               installments, the Committee or the Board of Directors may later
               determine to accelerate the time at which one or more of such
               installments may be exercised.

                    7.3.4.2 Any exercise of an option shall be in writing signed
               by the proper person and delivered or mailed to the General
               Counsel of the Company, accompanied by an option exercise notice
               and payment in full for the number of shares in respect to which
               the option is exercised.

                    7.3.4.3 In the event an option is exercised by the executor
               or administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or
               persons to whom the option has been transferred by the
               Participant's will or the applicable laws of descent and
               distribution, the Company shall be under no obligation to deliver
               stock thereunder until the Company is satisfied that the person
               or persons exercising the option is or are the duly appointed
               executor or administrator of the deceased Participant or the
               person or persons to whom the option has been transferred by the
               Participant's will or by the applicable laws of descent and
               distribution.

                    7.3.4.4 The Committee or the Board of Directors may at the
               time of grant condition the exercise of an option upon agreement
               by the Participant to subject the Common Stock to any
               restrictions on transfer or repurchase rights in effect on the
               date of exercise, upon representations of continued employment
               and upon other terms not inconsistent with this Plan. Any such
               conditions shall be set forth in the option certificate or other
               document evidencing the option.

                    7.3.4.5 In the case of an option that is not an Incentive
               Stock Option, the Committee shall have the right to require that
               the individual exercising the option to remit to the Company an
               amount sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, or local
               withholding tax requirements (or makes other arrangements
               satisfactory to the Company with regard to such taxes) prior to
               the delivery of any Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of the
               option. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, if at the time
               the Incentive Stock Option is exercised the Committee determines
               that under applicable law and regulations the Company could be
               liable for the withholding of any federal or state tax with
               respect to a disposition of the


                                  Page 5 of 10
<PAGE>

               Common Stock received upon exercise, the Committee may require as
               a condition of exercise that the individual exercising the
               Incentive Stock Option agree (i) to inform the Company promptly
               of any disposition (within the meaning of Section 422 (a) (1) of
               the Code and the regulations thereunder) of Common Stock received
               upon exercise, and (ii) to give such security as the Committee
               deems adequate to meet the potential liability of the Company for
               the withholding of tax, and to augment such security from time to
               time in any amount reasonably deemed necessary by the Committee
               to preserve the adequacy of such security.

                    7.3.4.6 In the case of an option that is exercised by an
               individual that is subject to taxation in a foreign jurisdiction,
               the Committee shall have the right to require the individual
               exercising the option to remit to the Company an amount
               sufficient to satisfy any federal or withholding requirement of
               that foreign jurisdiction (or make other arrangements
               satisfactory to the Company with regard to such taxes prior to
               the delivery of any Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of the
               option).

               7.3.5 PAYMENT FOR AND DELIVERY OF STOCK. The shares of stock
          purchased on any exercise of an option granted hereunder shall be paid
          for in full in cash or, if permitted by the terms of the option, in
          shares of unrestricted Common Stock at the time of such exercise or,
          if so permitted, a combination of such cash and Common Stock. A
          Participant shall not have the rights of a stockholder with respect to
          awards under the Plan except as to stock actually issued to him.

               7.3.6 LISTING OF STOCK, WITHHOLDING AND OTHER LEGAL REQUIREMENTS.
          The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any stock until all
          federal and state laws and regulations which the Company may deem
          applicable have been complied with, nor, in the event the outstanding
          Common Stock is at the time listed upon any stock exchange, until the
          stock to be delivered has been listed or authorized to be added to the
          list upon official notice of issuance to such exchange. In addition,
          if the shares of stock subject to any option have not been registered
          in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Company
          may require the person or persons who wishes or wish to exercise such
          option to make such representation or agreement with respect to the
          sale of stock acquired on exercise of the option as will be
          sufficient, in the opinion of the Company's counsel, to avoid
          violation of said Act, and may also require that the certificates
          evidencing said stock bear an appropriate restrictive legend.

               7.3.7 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS. No option may be
          transferred by the Participant otherwise than by will, by the laws of
          descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations
          order, and during the Participant's lifetime the option may be
          exercised only by him or her; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Board of
          Directors or the Committee, as applicable, in its discretion, may
          allow for transferability of non-qualified stock options by the
          Participant to



                                  Page 6 of 10
<PAGE>

          "Immediate Family Members." Immediate Family Members means children,
          grandchildren, spouse or common law spouse, siblings or parents of the
          Participant or to bona fide trusts, partnerships or other entities
          controlled by and of which the beneficiaries are Immediate Family
          Members of the Participant. Any option grants that are transferable
          are further conditioned on the Participant and Immediate Family
          Members agreeing to abide by the Company's then current stock option
          transfer guidelines.

               7.3.8 DEATH. If a Participant dies at a time when he is entitled
          to exercise an Incentive Stock Option, then at any time or times
          within three years after his death such Incentive Stock Option may be
          exercised, as to all or any of the shares which the Participant was
          entitled to purchase thereunder immediately prior to his death, by his
          executor or administrator or the person or persons to whom the
          Incentive Stock Option is transferred by will or the applicable laws
          of descent and distribution, and except as so exercised such Incentive
          Stock Option shall expire at the end of such three-year period. In no
          event, however, may any Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan
          be exercised after the expiration of ten years (five years in the case
          of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder)
          from the date the Incentive Stock Option was granted.

               7.3.9 TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT. If the employment of a
          Participant terminates for any reason other than his death, all
          options held by the Participant shall thereupon expire on the date of
          termination unless the option by its terms, or the Committee or the
          Board of Directors by resolution, shall allow the Participant to
          exercise any or all of the options held by him after termination. In
          the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Incentive Stock Option
          shall in any event expire at the end of three months after such
          termination of employment, or after the expiration of ten years (five
          years in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten
          Percent Stockholder) from the date the Incentive Stock Option was
          granted, whichever occurs first. If the Committee or the Board of
          Directors so decides, an option may provide that a leave of absence
          granted by the Company or Subsidiary is not a termination of
          employment for the purpose of this subsection 7.3.9, and in the
          absence of such a provision the Committee may in any particular case
          determine that such a leave of absence is not a termination of
          employment for such purpose. The Committee shall also determine all
          other matters relating to continuous employment.

               7.3.10 CANCELLATION AND RESCISSION OF OPTIONS. The following
          provisions of this Section 7.3.10 shall apply to options granted on or
          after July 1, 1998 to (i) Participants who are classified by the
          Company or a Subsidiary as an executive officer, senior officer, or
          officer (collectively, an "Officer") of the Company or a Subsidiary;
          and (ii) certain other Participants designated by the Committee or the
          Board of Directors to be subject to the terms of this Section 7.3.10
          (such designated Participants together with Officers referred to
          collectively as "Senior Participants"). The Committee or the Board of
          Directors may cancel, rescind,


                                  Page 7 of 10
<PAGE>

          suspend or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired option at any
          time if the Senior Participant engages in "Detrimental Activity" (as
          defined below). Furthermore, in the event a Senior Participant engages
          in Detrimental Activity at any time prior to or during the six months
          after any exercise of an option, such exercise may be rescinded until
          the later of (i) two years after such exercise or (ii) two years after
          such Detrimental Activity. Upon such rescission, the Company at its
          sole option may require the Senior Participant to (i) deliver and
          transfer to the Company the shares of Common Stock received by the
          Senior Participant upon such exercise, (ii) pay to the Company an
          amount equal to any realized gain received by the Senior Participant
          from such exercise, or (iii) pay to the Company an amount equal to the
          market price (as of the exercise date) of the Common Stock acquired
          upon such exercise minus the respective exercise price. The Company
          shall be entitled to set-off any such amount owed to the Company
          against any amount owed to the Senior Participant by the Company. As
          used in this subsection 7.3.10, "Detrimental Activity" shall include:
          (i) the failure to comply with the terms of the Plan or certificate or
          agreement evidencing the option; (ii) the failure to comply with any
          term set forth in the Company's Key Employee Agreement (irrespective
          of whether the Senior Participant is a party to the Key Employee
          Agreement); (iii) any activity that results in termination of the
          Senior Participant's employment for cause; (iv) a violation of any
          rule, policy, procedure or guideline of the Company; or (v) the Senior
          Participant being convicted of, or entering a guilty plea with respect
          to a crime whether or not connected with the Company.

               7.3.11 JURISDICTION AND GOVERNING LAW. The parties submit to the
          exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of the
          Commonwealth of Massachusetts, County of Middlesex, to resolve issues
          that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or the same subject
          matter. The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of
          Massachusetts, excluding its conflicts or choice of law rules or
          principles that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation
          of this Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.

          7.4 AUTHORITY OF THE COMMITTEE. The Committee shall have the
     authority, either generally or in particular instances, to waive compliance
     by a Participant with any obligation to be performed by him under an option
     and to waive any condition or provision of an option, except that the
     Committee may not (i) increase the total number of shares covered by any
     Incentive Stock Option (except in accordance with Section 8), (ii) reduce
     the option price per share of any Incentive Stock Option (except in
     accordance with Section 8) or (iii) extend the term of any Incentive Stock
     Option to more than ten years, subject, however, to the provisions of
     Section 10.


                                  Page 8 of 10
<PAGE>

8. CHANGES IN STOCK.

     In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate
structure or capitalization affecting the Common Stock that becomes effective
after the adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors, the Committee shall
make appropriate adjustments in (i) the number and kind of shares of stock on
which options may thereafter be granted hereunder, (ii) the number and kind of
shares of stock remaining subject to each option outstanding at the time of such
change and (iii) the option price. The Committee's determination shall be
binding on all persons concerned. Subject to any required action by the
stockholders, if the Company shall be the surviving corporation in any merger or
consolidation (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company
survives but in which a majority of its outstanding shares are converted into
securities of another corporation or are exchanged for other consideration), any
option granted hereunder shall pertain and apply to the securities which a
holder of the number of shares of stock of the Company then subject to the
option would have been entitled to receive, but a dissolution or liquidation of
the Company or a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the
surviving corporation or in which a majority of its outstanding shares are so
converted or exchanged shall cause every option hereunder to terminate; provided
that if any such dissolution, liquidation, merger or consolidation is
contemplated, the Company shall either arrange for any corporation succeeding to
the business and assets of the Company to issue to the Participants replacement
options (which, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, satisfy, in the
determination of the Committee, the requirements of Section 424 of the Code) on
such corporation's stock which will to the extent possible preserve the value of
the outstanding options or shall make the outstanding options fully exercisable
at least 20 days before the effective date of any such dissolution, liquidation,
merger or consolidation. The existence of the Plan shall not prevent any such
change or other transaction and no Participant thereunder shall have any right
except as herein expressly set forth.

9. EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.

     Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any grant of options confers upon any
employee of the Company or a Subsidiary any right to continued employment with
the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, nor does it interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of
any of its employees at any time.

10. DISCONTINUANCE, CANCELLATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.

     The Committee or the Board of Directors may at any time discontinue
granting options under the Plan and, with the consent of the Participant, may at
any time cancel an existing option in whole or in part and grant another option
to the Participant for such number of shares as the Committee or the Board of
Directors specifies. The Board of Directors may at any time or times amend the
Plan for the purpose of satisfying the


                                  Page 9 of 10
<PAGE>

requirements of any changes in applicable laws or regulations or for any other
purpose which may at the time be permitted by law or may at any time terminate
the Plan as to any further grants of options, provided that no such amendment
shall without the approval of the stockholders of the Company (a) increase the
maximum number of shares available under the Plan, (b) change the group of
employees eligible to receive options under the Plan, (c) reduce the exercise
price of outstanding incentive options or reduce the price at which incentive
options may be granted, (d) extend the time within which options may be granted,
(e) alter the Plan in such a way that incentive options granted or to be granted
hereunder would not be considered incentive stock options under Section 422 of
the Code, or (f) amend the provisions of this Section 10, and no such amendment
shall adversely affect the rights of any employee (without his consent) under
any option previously granted.

11. EFFECTIVE DATE.

     The Plan became effective immediately upon its approval by the stockholders
of the Company at the Annual Meeting on May 12, 1993.


                                 Page 10 of 10
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.1
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21.1

                           SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

The following is a list of the Corporation's consolidated subsidiaries as of
January 31, 2000. The Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of the
voting securities of each subsidiary, unless noted otherwise and except for
director's qualifying shares.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

NAME                                                                               STATE OR JURISDICTION
                                                                                   OF ORGANIZATION
<S>                                                                                    <C>
Asia Data General Corp.                                                                 Delaware
Conley Corporation                                                                      Delaware
China Data General Corp.                                                                Delaware
CLARiiON Storage Systems, Inc.                                                          Delaware
D G Foreign Sales Corp.                                                                 Barbados
D.G. Venezuela, C.A.                                                                    Venezuela
Datagen, Inc.                                                                           Delaware
Data General AB                                                                         Sweden
Data General A.G.                                                                       Switzerland
Data General A/S                                                                        Denmark
Data General A/S                                                                        Norway
Data General Africa SARL                                                                Africa
Data General Argentina S.A.                                                             Argentina
Data General Australia Pty., Ltd.                                                       Australia
Data General Bahamas Limited                                                            Bahamas
Data General BVI Ltd.                                                                   British Virgin Island
Data General Canada                                                                     Canada
Data General Chile S.A.                                                                 Chile
Data General (Canada) Company                                                           Canada
Data General Computers Hungary Ltd.                                                     Hungary
Data General Computers Sdn Bhd                                                          Malaysia
Data General de Mexico S.A. de C.V.                                                     Mexico
Data General Del Peru, S.A.                                                             Peru
Data General do Brasil LTDA                                                             Brazil
Data General France S.A.S.                                                              France
Data General Gesellschaft mbH                                                           Austria
Data General GmbH                                                                       Germany
Data General Hong Kong Sales & Service Limited                                          Hong Kong
Data General Hong Kong, Limited                                                         Hong Kong
Data General International Inc.                                                         Delaware
Data General International Manufacturing Pte., Ltd.                                     Singapore
Data General International Sales Corp.                                                  Delaware
Data General Investment Corp.                                                           Delaware
Data General Ireland Limited                                                            Ireland
Data General Israel, Ltd.                                                               Israel
Data General Japan YK                                                                   Japan
Data General Korea Ltd.                                                                 Korea
Data General Latin America, Inc.                                                        Delaware
Data General Limited                                                                    United Kingdom
Data General Nederland BV                                                               The Netherlands
Data General New Zealand, Limited                                                       New Zealand
Data General Puerto Rico, Inc.                                                          Delaware
Data General S.A.                                                                       Belgium
Data General S.A.                                                                       Spain
Data General S.r.l.                                                                     Italy
Data General Singapore Pte.Ltd.                                                         Singapore
</TABLE>


<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


<S>                                                                                    <C>
Data General South Africa (Proprietary) Limited                                         South Africa
Data General Systems (Thailand) Limited                                                 Thailand
Data General Technology (1990) Ltd.                                                     Israel
Data General Telecommunications, Inc.                                                   Delaware
Digital Computer Controls, Inc.                                                         Delaware
EMC (Benelux) B.V.                                                                      The Netherlands
EMC Computer Storage Systems (Israel) Ltd.                                              Israel
EMC Computer Storage Systems (Sales and Services) Ltd                                   Israel
EMC Computer Systems AG                                                                 Switzerland
EMC Computer Systems Argentina S.A.                                                     Argentina
EMC Computer-Systems A/S                                                                Denmark
EMC Computer-Systems AS                                                                 Norway
EMC Computer Systems Austria GmbH                                                       Austria
EMC Computer Systems (Benelux) B.V.                                                     The Netherlands
EMC Computer-Systems Brazil Ltda.                                                       Brazil
EMC Computer Systems California, Inc                                                    Delaware
EMC Computer-Systems Deutschland GmbH                                                   Germany
EMC Computer Systems (F.E.) Ltd.                                                        Hong Kong
EMC Computer Systems France S.A.                                                        France
EMC Computer-Systems Ireland Limited                                                    Ireland
EMC Computer Systems Italia S.p.A.                                                      Italy
EMC Computer-Systems OY                                                                 Finland
EMC Computer Systems Philippines, Inc.                                                  Philippines
EMC Computer Systems Poland                                                             Poland
EMC Computer Systems (S.A.) (Pty.) Ltd.                                                 South Africa
EMC Computer Systems (South Asia) Pte. Ltd.                                             Singapore
EMC Computer Systems Spain S.L.                                                         Spain
EMC Computer-Systems Svenska AB                                                         Sweden
EMC Computer Systems (U.K.) Limited                                                     United Kingdom
EMC Computer Systems Venezuela, S.A.                                                    Venezuela
EMC Corporation of Canada                                                               Canada
EMC Foreign Sales Corporation (F.S.C.)                                                  Barbados
EMC International Holdings, Inc.                                                        Delaware
EMC Japan K.K.*                                                                         Japan
EMC Securities Corporation                                                              Massachusetts
Epoch, Inc.                                                                             Delaware
General Risk Insurance Company Ltd. (DG)                                                Bermuda
Hankook EMC Computer Systems Chusik Hoesa                                               South Korea
M.C.I. Management and Computer Consulting Canada, Inc.                                  Canada
M.C.I. Management and Computer Consulting, Inc.                                         Canada
M.C.I. Management and Computer Consulting International, Inc.                           Canada
MCI S.A.                                                                                France
Management Consulting & Informatic Ltd.                                                 Israel
McDATA Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.                                                           Singapore
McDATA Corporation**                                                                    Delaware
McDATA Holdings Corporation                                                             Delaware
McDATA International Inc.                                                               U.S. Virgin Islands
Millennia III, Inc.                                                                     Delaware
P2I                                                                                     France
Softworks, Inc.                                                                         Delaware
Terascape Software Inc.                                                                 Massachusetts
</TABLE>
- -----------------------------
* 95% owned by EMC Corporation.
** 81% owned by McDATA Holdings Corporation.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>


                                  EXHIBIT 23.1
                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

         We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements of EMC Corporation on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-24901, 333-41079 and
333-60177) and on Form S-8 (File Nos. 33-51800, 33-54860, 33-63665, 333-31471,
333-55801, 333-01375, 333-05133, 333-61113, 333-63045, 333-57263, 333-90329,
333-90331 and 333-86659) of our report dated January 21, 2000, on our audits of
the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement
schedule of EMC Corporation as of December 31, 1999 and 1998 and for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1999, which report is included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




                                  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

                                  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
March 17, 2000

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27.1
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
This schedule contains summary financial information extracted from EMC
Corporation financial statements and is qualified in its entirety by reference
to such financial statements.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1999
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1999
<CASH>                                       1,109,409
<SECURITIES>                                   714,730
<RECEIVABLES>                                1,625,438
<ALLOWANCES>                                    34,279
<INVENTORY>                                    618,885
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             4,320,396
<PP&E>                                       1,023,179
<DEPRECIATION>                                 894,701
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               7,173,288
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                        1,397,915
<BONDS>                                        673,149
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                           10,393
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                             0
<OTHER-SE>                                   4,941,393
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 7,173,288
<SALES>                                      5,983,009
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             6,715,610
<CGS>                                        3,258,245
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                2,216,271
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              33,490
<INCOME-PRETAX>                              1,357,165
<INCOME-TAX>                                   346,595
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                          1,010,570
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                 1,010,570
<EPS-BASIC>                                        .98
<EPS-DILUTED>                                      .92


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
