-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 O7cTNo3wzJ8nxN6jJXimf0nV6v+cK9GLCsYSuyx9fKPCUbCC+xQzkm0cLmy5sD3B
 W7sy8utiP/Z/LWyCIcQGjA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950135-98-001657.txt : 19980323
<SEC-HEADER>0000950135-98-001657.hdr.sgml : 19980323
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-98-001657
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	8-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		3
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19980318
ITEM INFORMATION:		
ITEM INFORMATION:		
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980319
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ANALOG DEVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000006281
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				042348234
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		8-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07819
		FILM NUMBER:		98568956

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6173294700
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>8-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANALOG DEVICES, INC
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 8-K

                                 CURRENT REPORT

                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                    THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) - March 18, 1998

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


          Massachusetts                 1-7819              04-2348234
        -----------------            ------------         --------------
        (State or other              (Commission          (IRS Employer
         jurisdiction of               File No.)          Identification
         incorporation)                                        No.)


         One Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts         02062-9106
        --------------------------------------------      --------------
        (Address of principal executive offices)            (Zip Code)

        Registrant's telephone number, including area code  (718) 329-4700

                                 Not Applicable
         -------------------------------------------------------------
         (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)



<PAGE>   2
 
Item 5. Other Events.
 
     On March 10, 1998, the Board of Directors of ANALOG DEVICES, INC. (the
"Company"), declared a dividend of one Right for each outstanding share of the
Company's Common Stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on
March 23, 1998 (the "Record Date"). Each Right entitles the registered holder to
purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value per share (the "Preferred
Stock"), at a Purchase Price of $180 in cash, subject to adjustment. The
description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as
of March 18, 1998 (the "Rights Agreement") between the Company and BankBoston
N.A., as Rights Agent.
 
     Initially, the Rights will be attached to all Common Stock certificates
representing shares then outstanding, and no separate Rights Certificates will
be distributed. The Rights will separate from the Common Stock and a
Distribution Date will occur upon the earlier of (i) 10 business days (or such
later date as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company)
following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or
associated persons (an "Acquiring Person") has acquired, or obtained the right
to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of
Common Stock (the "Stock Acquisition Date"), or (ii) 10 business days (or such
later date as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company)
following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result
in a person or group beneficially owning 20% or more of such outstanding shares
of Common Stock. Until the Distribution Date (or earlier redemption or
expiration of the rights), (i) the Rights will be evidenced by the Common Stock
certificates and will be transferred with and only with such Common Stock
certificates, (ii) new Common Stock certificates issued after the Record Date
will contain a notation incorporating the Rights Agreement by reference and
(iii) the surrender for transfer of any certificates for Common Stock
outstanding, even without such notation, will also constitute the transfer of
the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificate.
 
     The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire
upon the earliest of the close of business on March 17, 2008 (the "Final
Expiration Date") unless earlier redeemed or exchanged as described below. As
soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, separate Rights Certificates
will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Stock as of the close of
business on the Distribution Date and, thereafter, the separate Rights
Certificates alone will represent the Rights. Except as otherwise determined by
the Board of Directors, and except for shares of Common Stock issued upon
exercise, conversion or exchange of then outstanding options, convertible or
exchangeable securities or other contingent obligations to issue shares, only
shares of Common Stock issued prior to the Distribution Date will be issued with
Rights.
 
     In the event that any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, unless the event
causing the 15% threshold to be crossed is a Permitted Offer (as defined in the
Rights Agreement), then, promptly following the first occurrence of such event,
each holder of a Right (except as provided below and in Section 7(e) of the
Rights Agreement) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise,
that number of shares of Common Stock of the Company (or, in certain
circumstances, cash, property or other securities of the Company) which equals
the exercise price of the Right divided by 50% of the current market price (as
defined in the Rights Agreement) per share of Common Stock at the date of the
occurrence of such event. However, Rights are not exercisable following such
event until such time as the Rights are no longer redeemable by the Company as
described below. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the occurrence
of such event, all Rights that are, or (under certain circumstances specified in
the Rights Agreement) were, beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person will be
null and void. The event summarized in this paragraph is referred to as a
"Section 11(a)(ii) Event."
 
     In the event that, at any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring
Person, (i) the Company is consolidated with, or merged with and into, another
entity and the Company is not the surviving entity of such consolidation or
merger (other than a consolidation or merger which follows a Permitted Offer) or
if the Company is the surviving entity, but shares of its outstanding Common
Stock are changed or exchanged for stock or securities (of any other person) or
cash or any other property, or (ii) 50% or more of the Company's assets or
earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights
which previously have
 
                                        2
<PAGE>   3
 
been voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon
exercise, that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which
equals the exercise price of the Right divided by 50% of the current market
price of such common stock at the date of the occurrence of the event. The
events summarized in this paragraph are referred to as "Section 13 Events." A
Section 11(a)(ii) Event and Section 13 Events are collectively referred to as
"Triggering Events."
 
     At any time after the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, subject to
certain conditions, the Board of Directors of the Company may exchange the
Rights (other than Rights owned by such Acquiring Person which have become
void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock,
or one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or of a share of a class or
series of the Company's preferred stock having equivalent rights, preferences
and privileges), per Right (subject to adjustment).
 
     The Purchase Price payable, and the number of units of Preferred Stock or
other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject
to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock
dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Preferred
Stock, (ii) if holders of the Preferred Stock are granted certain rights or
warrants to subscribe for Preferred Stock or convertible securities at less than
the then-current market price of the Preferred Stock, or (iii) upon the
distribution to holders of the Preferred Stock of evidences of indebtedness or
assets (excluding regular periodic cash dividends paid out of earnings or
retained earnings) or of subscription rights or warrants (other than those
referred to above). The number of Rights associated with each share of Common
Stock is also subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split of the Common
Stock or a stock dividend on the Common Stock payable in Common Stock or
subdivisions, consolidations or combinations of the Common Stock occurring, in
any such case, prior to the Distribution Date.
 
     With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be
required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase
Price. No fractional shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions which are
integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) will be
issued and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the
market price of the Preferred Stock on the last trading date prior to the date
of exercise.
 

                                       3


<PAGE>   4
     Preferred Stock purchasable upon exercise of the Rights will not be
redeemable. Each share of Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when, as
and if declared by the Board of Directors, a minimum preferential quarterly
dividend payment of $100 per share or, if greater, an aggregate dividend of
1,000 times the dividend declared per share of Common Stock. In the event of
liquidation, the holders of the Preferred Stock will be entitled to a minimum
preferential liquidation payment of $1,000 per share and will be entitled to an
aggregate payment of 1,000 times the payment made per share of Common Stock.
Each share of Preferred Stock will have 1,000 votes, voting together with the
Common Stock. In the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in
which Common Stock is changed or exchanged, each share of Preferred Stock will
be entitled to receive 1,000 times the amount received per share of Common
Stock. These rights are protected by customary antidilution provisions. Because
of the nature of the Preferred Stock's dividend, liquidation and voting rights,
the value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock purchasable upon
exercise of each Right should approximate the value of one share of Common
Stock.
 
     At any time prior to the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date, or (ii) the
Final Expiration Date, the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in
part, at a price of $.001 per Right (the "Redemption Price"), payable in cash or
stock, provided, however, that if a majority of the Board of Directors of the
Company is comprised of persons elected at a meeting of stockholders who were
not nominated by the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such
meeting, then the Rights may not be redeemed for a period of 120 days after such
election if such redemption is reasonably likely to have the purpose or effect
of allowing any person to become an Acquiring Person or otherwise facilitating
the occurrence of a Triggering Event or a transaction with an Acquiring Person.
Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors ordering redemption of the
Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights
will be to receive the Redemption Price. The Rights may also be redeemable
following certain other circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement.
 
                                        4
<PAGE>   5
 
     Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no
rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right
to vote or to receive dividends. While the distribution of the Rights will not
be taxable to stockholders or to the Company, stockholders may, depending upon
the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the Rights become
exercisable for Common Stock (or other consideration) of the Company or for
common stock of the acquiring company as set forth above.
 
     Subject to certain exceptions, any of the provisions of the Rights
Agreement may be amended by the Board of Directors of the Company prior to such
time as the Rights are no longer redeemable.
 
 
                                        5
<PAGE>   6

Item 7.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.

               (c)  Exhibits


Exhibit No.                             Exhibit
- -----------                             -------

     4.1       Form of Rights Agreement, dated as of March 18, 1998, between
               Analog Devices, Inc. and BankBoston, N.A., which includes as
               Exhibit A the Terms of the Series A Junior Participating
               Preferred Stock, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights Certificate,
               and as Exhibit C the Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred
               Stock.

    99.1       Press Release, dated March 18, 1998 announcing adoption of the
               Stockholder Rights Plan.



                                       6

<PAGE>   7
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 19, 1998               ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


                                   /s/ Joseph E. McDonough
                                   ---------------------------
                                   Joseph E. McDonough
                                   Vice President - Finance
                                   and Chief Financial Officer




                                       7

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-4.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>RIGHTS AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                     EXHIBIT 4.1




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                                       AND

                                BANKBOSTON, N.A.

                                  RIGHTS AGENT




                                RIGHTS AGREEMENT

                           DATED AS OF MARCH 18, 1998
<PAGE>   2
                                RIGHTS AGREEMENT


         RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of March 18, 1998 (the "Agreement"), between
ANALOG DEVICES, INC., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), and
BankBoston N.A., a national banking association, as Rights Agent (the "Rights
Agent").

                               W I T N E S S E T H

         WHEREAS, on March 10, 1998 the Board of Directors of the Company (the
"Board" or "Board of Directors") authorized and declared a dividend distribution
of one Right for each share of Common Stock (as hereinafter defined) of the
Company outstanding at the close of business on March 23, 1998 (the "Record
Date"), and authorized the issuance of one Right (as such number may hereinafter
be adjusted pursuant to the provisions of Section 11(p) hereof) for each share
of Common Stock of the Company issued between the Record Date (whether
originally issued or delivered from the Company's treasury) and the earlier of
the Distribution Date or the Expiration Date, each Right initially representing
the right to purchase one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock of the Company having the rights, powers and
preferences set forth in the form of Certificate of Vote attached hereto as
Exhibit A, upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth
(the "Rights");

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual
agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:

         Section 1. Certain Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, the
following terms have the meanings indicated:

                  (a) "Acquiring Person" shall mean any Person who or which,
together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, shall be the
Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding,
but shall not include (i) the Company, (ii) any Subsidiary of the Company, (iii)
any employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or
(iv) any Person organized, appointed or established by the Company for or
pursuant to the terms of any such plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
Board of Directors of the Company determines in good faith that a Person who
would otherwise be an "Acquiring Person," as defined pursuant to the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph (a), has become such inadvertently, and such Person
divests as promptly as practicable a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock
so that such Person would no longer be an "Acquiring Person," as defined
pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph (a), then such Person
shall not be deemed to be an "Acquiring Person" for any purposes of this
Agreement unless and until such Person shall again become an "Acquiring Person."
<PAGE>   3
                  (b) "Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933.

                  (c) "Affiliate" and "Associate" shall have the respective
meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and
Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and in effect
on the date of this Agreement (the "Exchange Act").

                  (d) A Person shall be deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, and
shall be deemed to "beneficially own," any securities:

                  (i) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
         Associates, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns or has the right
         to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after
         the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or
         understanding (other than customary agreements with and between
         underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona fide
         public offering of securities), whether or not in writing, or upon the
         exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, other rights, warrants
         or options, or otherwise; provided, however, that a Person shall not be
         deemed the "Beneficial Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," (A)
         securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by such
         Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until such
         tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange, or (B)
         securities issuable upon exercise of Rights at any time prior to the
         occurrence of a Triggering Event, or (C) securities issuable upon
         exercise of Rights from and after the occurrence of a Triggering Event
         which Rights were acquired by such Person or any of such Person's
         Affiliates or Associates prior to the Distribution Date or pursuant to
         Section 3(a) or Section 22 hereof (the "Original Rights") or pursuant
         to Section 11(i) hereof in connection with an adjustment made with
         respect to any Original Rights;

                  (ii) which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
         Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to vote or dispose of
         or has "beneficial ownership" of (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3
         of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, or any
         comparable or successor rule), including pursuant to any agreement,
         arrangement or understanding (other than customary agreements with and
         between underwriters and selling group members with respect to a bona
         fide public offering of securities), whether or not in writing;
         provided, however, that a Person shall not be deemed the "Beneficial
         Owner" of, or to "beneficially own," any security under this
         subparagraph (ii) as a result of an agreement, arrangement or
         understanding to vote such security if such agreement, arrangement or
         understanding: (A) arises solely from a revocable proxy given in
         response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to,
         and in accordance with, the applicable provisions of the General Rules
         and

                                        2
<PAGE>   4
         Regulations under the Exchange Act, and (B) is not then reportable by
         such Person on Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act (or any comparable
         or successor report); or

                  (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
         any other Person (or any Affiliate or Associate thereof) with which
         such Person (or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates) has any
         agreement, arrangement or understanding (other than customary
         agreements with and between underwriters and selling group members with
         respect to a bona fide public offering of securities) whether or not in
         writing, for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant
         to a revocable proxy as described in the proviso to subparagraph (ii)
         of this paragraph (d)) or disposing of any voting securities of the
         Company.

         For all purposes of this Agreement, any calculation of the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding at any particular time, including for
purposes of determining the particular percentage of such outstanding shares of
Common Stock of which any Person is the Beneficial Owner, shall be made in
accordance with the last sentence of Rule 13d-3(d)(l)(i) of the General Rules
and Regulations under the Exchange Act.

                  (e) "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday,
Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.

                  (f) "Close of business" on any given date shall mean 5:00
p.m., Boston time, on such date; provided, however, that if such date is not a
Business Day it shall mean 5:00 p.m., Boston time, on the next succeeding
Business Day.

                  (g) "Common Stock" shall mean the common stock, $.162/3 par
value, of the Company, except that "Common Stock" when used with reference to
any Person other than the Company shall mean the capital stock of such Person
with the greatest voting power, or the equity securities or other equity
interest having power to control or direct the management, of such Person.

                  (h) "Common stock equivalents" shall have the meaning set
forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

                  (i) "Continuing Director" shall mean any member of the Board
of Directors, while such person is a member of the Board of Directors, who is
not an Acquiring Person, or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person, or
a representative or nominee of an Acquiring Person or of any such Affiliate or
Associate, and who either (i) was a member of the Board of Directors prior to
the time that any Person became an Acquiring Person (other than pursuant to a

                                        3
<PAGE>   5
Permitted Offer) or (ii) subsequently became a member of the Board of Directors,
and whose nomination for election or election to the Board of Directors was
recommended or approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the
Board of Directors.

                  (j) "Current market price" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11(d)(i) hereof.

                  (k) "Current Value" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

                  (l) "Distribution Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3(a) hereof.

                  (m) "Exchange Act" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
1(c) hereof.


                  (n) "Expiration Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7(a) hereof.

                  (o) "Final Expiration Date" shall mean the close of business
on March 17, 2008.

                  (p) "Permitted Offer" shall mean a tender offer or an exchange
offer for all outstanding shares of Common Stock at a price and on terms
determined, prior to the consummation of such tender offer or exchange offer, by
at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors (provided, that at
the time of such approval of the Board of Directors there are then in office not
less than two Continuing Directors and such offer is approved by a majority of
the Continuing Directors then in office), after receiving advice from a
nationally recognized investment banking firm selected by the Board of
Directors, to be (a) at a price that is fair to stockholders (taking into
account all factors which such members of the Board deem relevant including,
without limitation, prices which could reasonably be achieved if the Company or
its assets were sold on an orderly basis designed to realize maximum value) and
(b) otherwise in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders.

                  (q) "Person" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation,
partnership, trust, association or other entity.

                  (r) "Preferred Stock" shall mean shares of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, of the Company having the rights
and preferences set forth in the form of Certificate of Vote attached to this
Agreement as

                                        4
<PAGE>   6
Exhibit A and, to the extent that there is not a sufficient number of shares of
Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock authorized to permit the full
exercise of the Rights, any other series of Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, of
the Company designated for such purpose containing terms substantially similar
to the terms of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.

                  (s) "Principal Party" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 13(b) hereof.

                  (t) "Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 4(a) hereof.

                  (u) "Record Date" shall have the meaning set forth in the
WHEREAS clause at the beginning of the Agreement.

                  (v) "Redemption Date" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 7(a) hereof.

                  (w) "Redemption Price" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 23(a) hereof.

                  (x) "Rights" shall have the meaning set forth in the WHEREAS
clause at the beginning of the Agreement.

                  (y) "Rights Certificates" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 3(a) hereof.

                  (z) "Section 11(a)(ii) Event" shall mean an acquisition of
Common Stock described in the first sentence of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.

                  (aa) "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date" shall have the meaning
set forth in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

                  (bb) "Section 13 Event" shall mean any event described in
clauses (x), (y) or (z) of Section 13(a) hereof.

                  (cc) "Spread" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
11(a)(iii) hereof.

                  (dd) "Stock Acquisition Date" shall mean the first date of
public announcement (which, for purposes of this definition, shall include,
without limitation, a report filed pursuant to Section 13(d) under the Exchange
Act) by the Company or an Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become
such.


                                        5
<PAGE>   7
                  (ee) "Subsidiary" shall mean, with reference to any Person,
any corporation of which an amount of voting securities sufficient to elect at
least a majority of the directors of such corporation is beneficially owned,
directly or indirectly, by such Person, or otherwise controlled by such Person.


                  (ff) "Substitution Period" shall have the meaning set forth in
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

                  (gg) "Trading Day" shall have the meaning set forth in Section
11(d)(i) hereof.

                  (hh) "Triggering Event" shall mean any Section 11(a)(ii) Event
or any Section 13 Event.

         Section 2. Appointment of Rights Agent. The Company hereby appoints the
Rights Agent to act as agent for the Company and the holders of the Rights (who,
in accordance with Section 3 hereof, shall prior to the Distribution Date also
be the holders of the Common Stock) in accordance with the terms and conditions
hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such appointment. The Company may
from time to time appoint such Co-Rights Agents as it may deem necessary or
desirable upon ten (10) days' prior written notice to the Rights Agent. The
Rights Agent shall have no duty to supervise, and shall in no event be liable
for, the acts or omissions of any such co-Rights Agent.

         Section 3. Issuance of Rights.

                  (a) Until the earlier of (i) the close of business on the
tenth Business Day (or such later date as may be determined by the Board of
Directors of the Company) after the Stock Acquisition Date (or, if the tenth
Business Day after the Stock Acquisition Date occurs before the Record Date, the
close of business on the Record Date), or (ii) the close of business on the
tenth Business Day (or such later date as may be determined by action of the
Board of Directors of the Company) after the date that a tender or exchange
offer by any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, any
employee benefit plan of the Company or of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any
Person organized, appointed or established by the Company for or pursuant to the
terms of any such plan) is first published or sent or given within the meaning
of Rule 14d-2(a) of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act, if
upon consummation thereof, such Person would be the Beneficial Owner of 20% or
more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding (the earlier of (i) and (ii)
being herein referred to as the "Distribution Date"), (x) the Rights will be
evidenced (subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section 3) by the
certificates for the Common Stock registered in the names of the holders of the
Common Stock (which certificates for Common Stock shall be deemed also to be

                                        6
<PAGE>   8
certificates for Rights) and not by separate certificates, and (y) the Rights
will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of the underlying
shares of Common Stock (including a transfer to the Company). As soon as
practicable after the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will send by
first-class, insured, postage prepaid mail, to each record holder of the Common
Stock as of the close of business on the Distribution Date, at the address of
such holder shown on the records of the Company, one or more rights
certificates, in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto (the "Rights
Certificates"), evidencing one Right for each share of Common Stock so held,
subject to adjustment as provided herein. In the event that an adjustment in the
number of Rights per share of Common Stock has been made pursuant to Section
11(p) hereof, at the time of distribution of the Right Certificates, the Company
shall make the necessary and appropriate rounding adjustments (in accordance
with Section 14(a) hereof) so that Rights Certificates representing only whole
numbers of Rights are distributed and cash is paid in lieu of any fractional
Rights. As of and after the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced
solely by such Rights Certificates.

                  (b) As promptly as practicable following the Record Date, the
Company will send a copy of a Summary of Rights to Purchase Preferred Stock, in
substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, by first-class, postage
prepaid mail, to each record holder of the Common Stock as of the close of
business on the Record Date, at the address of such holder shown on the records
of the Company. With respect to certificates for the Common Stock outstanding as
of the close of business on the Record Date, until the Distribution Date, the
Rights will be evidenced by such certificates for the Common Stock and the
registered holders of the Common Stock shall also be the registered holders of
the associated Rights.

                  (c) Rights shall be issued (i) in respect of all shares of
Common Stock that are issued (either as an original issuance or from the
Company's treasury) after the Record Date but prior to the earlier of the
Distribution Date or the Expiration Date and (ii) in connection with the
issuance or sale of Common Stock following the Distribution Date and prior to
the Expiration Date upon the exercise of stock options, or upon the exercise,
conversion or exchange of securities, granted or issued by the Company prior to
the Distribution Date. Certificates representing such shares of Common Stock
(including, without limitation, certificates issued upon transfer or exchange of
Common Stock) shall also be deemed to be certificates for Rights, and shall bear
the following legend:

                  This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof
         to certain Rights as set forth in the Rights Agreement between Analog
         Devices, Inc. (the "Company") and BankBoston N.A. (the "Rights Agent")
         dated as of March 18, 1998, as the same may be amended, restated or
         renewed from time to time (the "Rights Agreement"), the terms of which
         are hereby incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on

                                        7
<PAGE>   9
         file at the principal offices of the Company. Under certain
         circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will
         be evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced
         by this certificate. The Company will mail to the holder of this
         certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement, as in effect on the date of
         mailing, without charge promptly after receipt of a written request
         therefor. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Rights
         Agreement, Rights issued to, or held by, any Person who is, was or
         becomes an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associates thereof (as
         such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement), whether currently held
         by or on behalf of such Person or by any subsequent holder, may become
         null and void.

With respect to such certificates containing the foregoing legend, until the
earlier of (i) the Distribution Date or (ii) the Expiration Date, the Rights
associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificates shall be
evidenced by such certificates alone and registered holders of Common Stock
shall also be the registered holders of the associated Rights.

                  (d) Until the earlier of the Distribution Date or the
Expiration Date, the transfer of any certificates representing shares of Common
Stock in respect of which Rights have been issued shall also constitute the
transfer of the Rights associated with such shares of Common Stock. In the event
that the Company purchases or acquires any shares of Common Stock after the
Record Date but prior to the Distribution Date, any Rights associated with such
shares of Common Stock shall be deemed cancelled and retired so that the Company
shall not be entitled to exercise any Rights associated with the shares of
Common Stock which are no longer outstanding.

         Section 4. Form of Rights Certificates.

                  (a) The Rights Certificates (and the forms of election to
purchase, certification and assignment to be printed on the reverse thereof)
shall each be substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit B hereto and may
have such marks of identification or designation and such legends, summaries or
endorsements printed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, or as may be required to
comply with any applicable law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant
thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange or over-the-counter
market on which the Rights may from time to time be listed, or to conform to
usage. Subject to the provisions of Section 11 and Section 22 hereof, the Rights
Certificates, whenever distributed, shall entitle the holders thereof to
purchase such number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as
shall be set forth therein at the price set forth therein (such exercise price
per one one-thousandth of a share, the "Purchase Price"), but the

                                        8
<PAGE>   10
amount and type of securities purchasable upon the exercise of each Right and
the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment as provided herein.

                  (b) Any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 3 or
Section 22 hereof that represents Rights beneficially owned by persons known to
be: (i) an Acquiring Person or any Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring
Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or
Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring Person becomes such, or
(iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any such Associate or
Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring
Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer
(whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person to holders of
equity interests in such Acquiring Person or to any Person with whom such
Acquiring Person has any continuing agreement, arrangement or understanding
regarding the transferred Rights or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors
of the Company has determined is part of a plan, arrangement or understanding
that has as a primary purpose or effect avoidance of Section 7(e) hereof, and
any Rights Certificate issued pursuant to Section 6 or Section 11 hereof upon
transfer, exchange, replacement or adjustment of any other Rights Certificate
referred to in this sentence, shall contain (to the extent feasible) the
following legend:

         The Rights represented by this Rights Certificate are or were
         beneficially owned by a Person who was or became an Acquiring Person or
         an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are
         defined in the Rights Agreement). Accordingly, this Rights Certificate
         and the Rights represented hereby may become null and void in the
         circumstances specified in Section 7(e) of such Agreement.

         Section 5. Countersignature and Registration.

                  (a) The Rights Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the
Company by its Chairman of the Board, President or any Vice President, either
manually or by facsimile signature, and shall have affixed thereto the Company's
seal or a facsimile thereof, which shall be attested by the Secretary or an
Assistant Secretary of the Company, either manually or by facsimile signature.
The Rights Certificates shall be manually countersigned by the Rights Agent and
shall not be valid for any purpose unless so countersigned. In case any officer
of the Company who shall have signed any of the Rights Certificates shall cease
to be such officer of the Company before countersignature by the Rights Agent
and issuance and delivery by the Company, such Rights Certificates,
nevertheless, may be countersigned by the Rights Agent and issued and delivered
by the Company with the same force and effect as though the person who signed
such Rights Certificates had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and
any Rights Certificates may be signed on behalf of the Company by any person
who, at the actual date of the execution of such Rights

                                        9
<PAGE>   11
Certificate, shall be a proper officer of the Company to sign such Rights
Certificate, although at the date of the execution of this Rights Agreement any
such person was not such an officer.

                  (b) Following the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent shall
keep or cause to be kept, at its office designated as the appropriate place for
surrender of Rights Certificates upon exercise or transfer, books for
registration and transfer of the Rights Certificates issued hereunder. Such
books shall show the names and addresses of the respective holders of the Rights
Certificates, the number of Rights evidenced on its face by each of the Rights
Certificates, the Certificate number and the date of each of the Rights
Certificates.

         Section 6. Transfer, Split Up, Combination and Exchange of Rights
Certificates; Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Rights Certificates.

                  (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 4(b), Section 7(e)
and Section 14 hereof, at any time after the close of business on the
Distribution Date, and at or prior to the close of business on the Expiration
Date, any Rights Certificate or Certificates (other than Rights Certificates
representing Rights that have become void pursuant to Section 7(e) hereof or
that have been exchanged pursuant to Section 24 hereof) may be transferred,
split up, combined or exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Certificates,
entitling the registered holder to purchase a like number of one one-thousandths
of a share of Preferred Stock (or, following a Triggering Event, Common Stock,
other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) as the Rights
Certificate or Certificates surrendered then entitled such holder (or former
holder in the case of a transfer) to purchase. Any registered holder desiring to
transfer, split up, combine or exchange any Rights Certificate or Certificates
shall make such request in writing delivered to the Rights Agent, and shall
surrender the Rights Certificate or Certificates to be transferred, split up,
combined or exchanged, with the form of assignment and certificate appropriately
executed, at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose. Neither
the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to take any action
whatsoever with respect to the transfer of any such surrendered Rights
Certificate until the registered holder shall have completed and signed the
certificate contained in the form of assignment on the reverse side of such
Rights Certificate and shall have provided such additional evidence of the
identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or
Associates thereof as the Company shall reasonably request. Thereupon the Rights
Agent shall, subject to Section 4(b), Section 7(e) and Section 14 hereof,
countersign and deliver to the Person entitled thereto a Rights Certificate or
Rights Certificates, as the case may be, as so requested. The Company may
require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge that
may be imposed in connection with any transfer, split up, combination or
exchange of Rights Certificates.


                                       10
<PAGE>   12
                  (b) Upon receipt by the Company and the Rights Agent of
evidence reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or
mutilation of a Rights Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction,
of indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to them, and reimbursement to
the Company and the Rights Agent of all reasonable expenses incidental thereto,
and upon surrender to the Rights Agent and cancellation of the Rights
Certificate if mutilated, the Company will execute and deliver a new Rights
Certificate of like tenor to the Rights Agent for countersignature and delivery
to the registered owner in lieu of the Rights Certificate so lost, stolen,
destroyed or mutilated.

         Section 7. Exercise of Rights; Purchase Price; Expiration Date of
Rights.

                  (a) Subject to Section 7(e) hereof, the registered holder of
any Rights Certificate may exercise the Rights evidenced thereby (except as
otherwise provided herein including, without limitation, the restrictions on
exercisability set forth in Section 9(c), Section 11(a)(iii) and Section 23(a)
hereof) in whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon
surrender of the Rights Certificate, with the form of election to purchase and
the certificate on the reverse side thereof duly executed, to the Rights Agent
at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose, together with
payment of the aggregate Purchase Price with respect to the total number of one
one-thousandths of a share (or other securities, cash or other assets, as the
case may be) as to which such surrendered Rights are then exercisable, at or
prior to the earliest of (i) the Final Expiration Date, (ii) the time at which
the Rights expire as provided in Section 13(d) hereof, (iii) the time at which
the Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof (the "Redemption Date")
or (iv) the time at which such Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 24
hereof (the earliest of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) being herein referred to as
the "Expiration Date").

                  (b) The Purchase Price for each one one-thousandth of a share
of Preferred Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Right shall initially be $180
and shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11
and 13(a) hereof and shall be payable in accordance with paragraph (c) below.

                  (c) Upon receipt of a Rights Certificate representing
exercisable Rights, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate
duly executed, accompanied by payment, with respect to each Right so exercised,
of the Purchase Price per one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or
other shares, securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) to be
purchased as set forth below and an amount equal to any applicable transfer tax,
the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 20(k) hereof, thereupon promptly (i)
(A) requisition from any transfer agent of the shares of Preferred Stock (or
make available, if the Rights Agent is the transfer agent for such shares)
certificates for the total number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred
Stock to be purchased and the Company hereby authorizes its transfer agent to
comply with such requests, or (B) if the Company shall have elected

                                       11
<PAGE>   13
to deposit the total number of shares of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise
of the Rights hereunder with a depositary agent, requisition from the depositary
agent depositary receipts representing such number of one one-thousandths of a
share of Preferred Stock as are to be purchased (in which case certificates for
the shares of Preferred Stock represented by such receipts shall be deposited by
the transfer agent with the depositary agent) and the Company hereby directs the
depositary agent to comply with such requests, (ii) requisition from the Company
the amount of cash, if any, to be paid in lieu of fractional shares in
accordance with Section 14 hereof, (iii) after receipt of such certificates or
depositary receipts, cause the same to be delivered to or upon the order of the
registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names
as may be designated by such holder, and (iv) after receipt thereof, deliver
such cash, if any, to or upon the order of the registered holder of such Rights
Certificate. The payment of the Purchase Price (as such amount may be reduced
pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof) may be made in cash or by certified bank
check or money order payable to the order of the Company. In the event that the
Company is obligated to issue other securities (including Common Stock) of the
Company, pay cash and/or distribute other property pursuant to Section 11(a)
hereof, the Company shall make all arrangements necessary so that such other
securities, cash and/or other property are available for distribution by the
Rights Agent, if and when appropriate.

                  (d) In case the registered holder of any Rights Certificate
shall exercise less than all the Rights evidenced thereby, a new Rights
Certificate evidencing Rights equivalent to the Rights remaining unexercised
shall be issued by the Rights Agent and delivered to, or upon the order of, the
registered holder of such Rights Certificate, registered in such name or names
as may be designated by such holder, subject to the provisions of Section 14
hereof.

                  (e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, from and after the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, any
Rights beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Associate or
Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or
of any such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring
Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person (or of any
such Associate or Affiliate) who becomes a transferee prior to or concurrently
with the Acquiring Person becoming such and receives such Rights pursuant to
either (A) a transfer (whether or not for consideration) from the Acquiring
Person to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person or to any Person
with whom the Acquiring Person has any continuing agreement, arrangement or
understanding (whether or not in writing) regarding the transferred Rights or
(B) a transfer which the Board of Directors has determined is part of a plan,
arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing) that has as a primary
purpose or effect the avoidance of this Section 7(e), shall become null and void
without any further action and no holder of such Rights shall have any rights
whatsoever with respect to such Rights, whether under any provision of this
Agreement or otherwise. The

                                       12
<PAGE>   14
Company shall use all reasonable efforts to insure that the provisions of this
Section 7(e) and Section 4(b) hereof are complied with, but shall have no
liability to any holder of Rights Certificates or other Person as a result of
its failure to make any determinations with respect to an Acquiring Person or
its Affiliates, Associates or transferees hereunder.

                  (f) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to
undertake any action with respect to a registered holder upon the occurrence of
any purported transfer or exercise as set forth in this Section 7 unless such
registered holder shall have (i) completed and signed the certificate following
the form of assignment or election to purchase set forth on the reverse side of
the Rights Certificate surrendered for such assignment or exercise, and (ii)
provided such additional evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or
former Beneficial Owner) or Affiliates or Associates thereof as the Company
shall reasonably request.

         Section 8. Cancellation and Destruction of Rights Certificates. All
Rights Certificates surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, split up,
combination or exchange shall, if surrendered to the Company or any of its
agents, be delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in cancelled form,
or, if surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be cancelled by it, and no Rights
Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by
any of the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall deliver to the Rights
Agent for cancellation and retirement, and the Rights Agent shall so cancel and
retire, any other Rights Certificate purchased or acquired by the Company
otherwise than upon the exercise thereof. The Rights Agent shall deliver all
cancelled Rights Certificates to the Company, or shall, at the written request
of the Company, destroy such cancelled Rights Certificates, and in such case
shall deliver a certificate of destruction thereof to the Company.

         Section 9. Reservation and Availability of Capital Stock.

                  (a) The Company covenants and agrees that it will cause to be
reserved and kept available out of its authorized and unissued shares of
Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, out of its
authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock and/or other securities or out of
its authorized and issued shares held in its treasury), the number of shares of
Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Common
Stock and/or other securities) that, as provided in this Agreement including
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, will be sufficient to permit the exercise in full of
all outstanding Rights.

                  (b) So long as the shares of Preferred Stock (and, following
the occurrence of a Triggering Event, Common Stock and/or other securities)
issuable and deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights may be listed on any
national securities exchange, the Company shall use its best efforts to cause,
from and after

                                       13
<PAGE>   15
such time as the Rights become exercisable, all shares reserved for such
issuance to be so listed upon official notice of issuance upon such exercise.

                  (c) The Company shall use its best efforts to (i) file, as
soon as practicable following the earliest date after the first occurrence of a
Section 11(a)(ii) Event on which the consideration to be delivered by the
Company upon exercise of the Rights has been determined in accordance with
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, or as soon as is required by law following the
Distribution Date, as the case may be, a registration statement under the Act,
with respect to the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an
appropriate form, (ii) cause such registration statement to become effective as
soon as practicable after such filing, and (iii) cause such registration
statement to remain effective (with a prospectus at all times meeting the
requirements of the Act) until the earlier of (A) the date as of which the
Rights are no longer exercisable for such securities, and (B) the Expiration
Date. The Company will also take such action as may be appropriate under, or to
ensure compliance with, the securities or "blue sky" laws of the various states
in connection with the exercisability of the Rights. The Company may temporarily
suspend, for a period of time not to exceed ninety (90) days after the date set
forth in clause (i) of the first sentence of this Section 9(c), the
exercisability of the Rights in order to prepare and file such registration
statement and permit it to become effective. Upon any such suspension, the
Company shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the
Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such
time as the suspension is no longer in effect. Notwithstanding any provision of
this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable in any
jurisdiction unless the requisite registration or qualification in such
jurisdiction shall have been effected or obtained.

                  (d) The Company covenants and agrees that it will take all
such action as may be necessary to ensure that all one one-thousandths of a
share of Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event,
Common Stock and/or other securities) delivered upon exercise of Rights shall,
at the time of delivery of the certificates for such shares (subject to payment
of the Purchase Price), be duly and validly authorized and issued and fully paid
and nonassessable.

                  (e) The Company further covenants and agrees that it will pay
when due and payable any and all federal and state transfer taxes and charges
that may be payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Rights
Certificates and of any certificates for a number of one one-thousandths of a
share of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case
may be) upon the exercise of Rights. The Company shall not, however, be required
(i) to pay any transfer tax that may be payable in respect of any transfer or
delivery of Rights Certificates to a Person other than, or the issuance or
delivery of a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (or
Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) in respect of a name
other than that of, the registered holder of the Rights

                                       14
<PAGE>   16
Certificate evidencing Rights surrendered for exercise or (ii) to issue or
deliver any certificates for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of
Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) in
a name other than that of the registered holder upon the exercise of any Rights
until such tax shall have been paid (any such tax being payable by the holder of
such Rights Certificate at the time of surrender) or until it has been
established to the Company's satisfaction that no such tax is due.

         Section 10. Preferred Stock Record Date. Each Person in whose name any
certificate for a number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock
(or Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) is issued upon the
exercise of Rights shall for all purposes be deemed to have become the holder of
record of such fractional shares of Preferred Stock (or Common Stock and/or
other securities, as the case may be) represented thereby on, and such
certificate shall be dated, the date upon which the Rights Certificate
evidencing such Rights was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price
(and all applicable transfer taxes) was made; provided, however, that if the
date of such surrender and payment is a date upon which the Preferred Stock (or
Common Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the
Company are closed, such Person shall be deemed to have become the record holder
of such shares (fractional or otherwise) on, and such certificate shall be
dated, the next succeeding Business Day on which the Preferred Stock (or Common
Stock and/or other securities, as the case may be) transfer books of the Company
are open. Prior to the exercise of the Rights evidenced thereby, the holder of a
Rights Certificate, as such, shall not be entitled to any rights of a
stockholder of the Company with respect to securities for which the Rights shall
be exercisable, including, without limitation, the right to vote, to receive
dividends or other distributions or to exercise any preemptive rights, and shall
not be entitled to receive any notice of any proceedings of the Company, except
as provided herein.

         Section 11. Adjustment of Purchase Price, Number and Kind of Shares or
Number of Rights. The Purchase Price, the number and kind of shares covered by
each Right and the number of Rights outstanding are subject to adjustment from
time to time as provided in this Section 11.

                  (a)(i) In the event the Company shall at any time after the
         date of this Agreement (A) declare a dividend on the Preferred Stock
         payable in shares of Preferred Stock, (B) subdivide the outstanding
         Preferred Stock, (C) combine the outstanding Preferred Stock into a
         smaller number of shares, or (D) issue any shares of its capital stock
         in a reclassification of the Preferred Stock (including any such
         reclassification in connection with a consolidation or merger in which
         the Company is the continuing or surviving corporation), except as
         otherwise provided in this Section 11(a) and Section 7(e) hereof, the
         Purchase Price in effect at the time of the record date for such
         dividend or of the effective date

                                       15
<PAGE>   17
         of such subdivision, combination or reclassification, and the number
         and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or capital stock, as the case may
         be, issuable on such date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that
         the holder of any Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to
         receive, upon payment of the Purchase Price then in effect, the
         aggregate number and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or capital
         stock, as the case may be, which, if such Right had been exercised
         immediately prior to such date and at a time when the Preferred Stock
         transfer books of the Company were open, he would have owned upon such
         exercise and been entitled to receive by virtue of such dividend,
         subdivision, combination or reclassification. If an event occurs that
         would require an adjustment under both this Section 11(a)(i) and
         Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, the adjustment provided for in this Section
         11(a)(i) shall be in addition to, and shall be made prior to, any
         adjustment required pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) hereof.

                  (ii) Subject to Section 24 of this Agreement, in the event
         that any Person, alone or together with its Affiliates or Associates,
         becomes an Acquiring Person (other than pursuant to a Permitted Offer),
         then, promptly following the first occurrence of such event, proper
         provision shall be made so that each holder of a Right (except as
         provided below and in Section 7(e) hereof) shall thereafter have the
         right to receive (subject to the last sentence of Section 23(a)), upon
         exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price in accordance with
         the terms of this Agreement, in lieu of a number of one one-thousandths
         of a share of Preferred Stock, such number of shares of Common Stock of
         the Company that equals the result obtained by (x) multiplying the then
         current Purchase Price by the then number of one one-thousandths of a
         share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately
         prior to the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, and (y)
         dividing that product (which, following such first occurrence, shall
         thereafter be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and
         for all purposes of this Agreement) by 50% of the current market price
         (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Common Stock
         on the date of such first occurrence (such number of shares, the
         "Adjustment Shares").

                  (iii) In the event that the number of shares of Common Stock
         that are authorized by the Company's Articles of Organization but not
         outstanding or reserved for issuance for purposes other than upon
         exercise of the Rights are not sufficient to permit the exercise in
         full of the Rights in accordance with the foregoing subparagraph (ii)
         of this Section 11(a), the Company shall: (A) determine the excess of
         (1) the value of the Adjustment Shares issuable upon the exercise of a
         Right (the "Current Value") over (2) the Purchase Price (such excess,
         the "Spread"), and (B) with respect to each Right, make adequate
         provision to substitute for the Adjustment Shares, upon payment of the
         applicable Purchase Price, (1) cash, (2) a reduction in the Purchase
         Price, (3)

                                       16
<PAGE>   18
         Common Stock or other equity securities of the Company (including,
         without limitation, shares, or units of shares, of preferred stock
         which the Board of Directors of the Company has deemed to have the same
         value as shares of Common Stock (such shares of preferred stock,
         "common stock equivalents")), (4) debt securities of the Company, (5)
         other assets, or (6) any combination of the foregoing, having an
         aggregate value equal to the Current Value, where such aggregate value
         has been determined by the Board of Directors of the Company based upon
         the advice of a nationally recognized investment banking firm selected
         by the Board of Directors of the Company; provided, however, if the
         Company shall not have made adequate provision to deliver value
         pursuant to clause (B) above within thirty (30) days following the
         later of (x) the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event and (y)
         the date on which the Company's right of redemption pursuant to Section
         23(a) expires (the later of (x) and (y) being referred to herein as the
         "Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date"), then the Company shall be obligated
         to deliver, upon the surrender for exercise of a Right and without
         requiring payment of the Purchase Price, shares of Common Stock (to the
         extent available) and then, if necessary, cash, which shares and/or
         cash have an aggregate value equal to the Spread. If the Board of
         Directors of the Company shall determine in good faith that it is
         likely that sufficient additional shares of Common Stock could be
         authorized for issuance upon exercise in full of the Rights, the thirty
         (30) day period set forth above may be extended to the extent
         necessary, but not more than ninety (90) days after the Section
         11(a)(ii) Trigger Date, in order that the Company may seek shareholder
         approval for the authorization of such additional shares (such period,
         as it may be extended, the "Substitution Period"). To the extent that
         the Company determines that some action need be taken pursuant to the
         first and/or second sentences of this Section 11(a)(iii), the Company
         (x) shall provide, subject to Section 7(e) hereof, that such action
         shall apply uniformly to all outstanding Rights, and (y) may suspend
         the exercisability of the Rights until the expiration of the
         Substitution Period in order to seek any authorization of additional
         shares and/or to decide the appropriate form of distribution to be made
         pursuant to such first sentence and to determine the value thereof. In
         the event of any such suspension, the Company shall issue a public
         announcement stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been
         temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as
         the suspension is no longer in effect. For purposes of this Section
         11(a)(iii), the value of the Common Stock shall be the current market
         price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of the
         Common Stock on the Section 11(a)(ii) Trigger Date and the value of any
         "common stock equivalent" shall be deemed to have the same value as the
         Common Stock on such date.

                  (b) In case the Company shall fix a record date for the
issuance of rights, options or warrants to all holders of Preferred Stock
entitling them to sub scribe for or purchase (for a period expiring within
forty-five (45) calendar days after

                                       17
<PAGE>   19
such record date) Preferred Stock (or shares having the same rights, privileges
and preferences as the shares of Preferred Stock ("equivalent preferred stock"))
or securities convertible into Preferred Stock or equivalent preferred stock at
a price per share of Preferred Stock or per share of equivalent preferred stock
(or having a conversion price per share, if a security convertible into
Preferred Stock or equivalent preferred stock) less than the current market
price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Preferred
Stock on such record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record
date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately
prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the
number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding on such record date, plus the
number of shares of Preferred Stock which the aggregate offering price of the
total number of shares of Preferred Stock and/or equivalent preferred stock so
to be offered (and/or the aggregate initial conversion price of the convertible
securities so to be offered) would purchase at such current market price, and
the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Preferred Stock
outstanding on such record date, plus the number of additional shares of
Preferred Stock and/or equivalent preferred stock to be offered for subscription
or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so to be offered are
initially convertible). In case such subscription price may be paid by delivery
of consideration part or all of which may be in a form other than cash, the
value of such consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board of
Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement
filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes. Shares of
Preferred Stock owned by or held for the account of the Company shall not be
deemed outstanding for the purpose of any such computation. Such adjustment
shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and in the
event that such rights, options or warrants are not so issued, the Purchase
Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would then be in effect
if such record date had not been fixed.

                  (c) In case the Company shall fix a record date for a
distribution to all holders of Preferred Stock (including any such distribution
made in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the
continuing corporation) of evidences of indebtedness, cash (other than a regular
quarterly cash dividend out of the earnings or retained earnings of the
Company), assets (other than a dividend payable in Preferred Stock, but
including any dividend payable in stock other than Preferred Stock) or
subscription rights or warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b)
hereof), the Purchase Price to be in effect after such record date shall be
determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such
record date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the current market
price (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Preferred
Stock on such record date, less the fair market value (as determined in good
faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be
described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for
all purposes) of the portion of the cash, assets or evidences of indebtedness so
to be distributed or of such

                                       18
<PAGE>   20
subscription rights or warrants applicable to a share of Preferred Stock and the
denominator of which shall be such current market price (as determined pursuant
to Section 11(d) hereof) per share of Preferred Stock on such record date. Such
adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, and
in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase Price shall be
adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would have been in effect if such record
date had not been fixed.

                  (d)(i) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, other
         than computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the
         "current market price" per share of Common Stock on any date shall be
         deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of such
         Common Stock for the thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days (as such term
         is hereinafter defined) immediately prior to such date, and for
         purposes of computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof,
         the "current market price" per share of Common Stock on any date shall
         be deemed to be the average of the daily closing prices per share of
         such Common Stock for the ten (10) consecutive Trading Days immediately
         following such date; provided, however, that in the event that the
         current market price per share of the Common Stock is determined during
         a period following the announcement by the issuer of such Common Stock
         of (A) a dividend or distribution on such Common Stock payable in
         shares of such Common Stock or securities convertible into shares of
         such Common Stock (other than the Rights), or (B) any subdivision,
         combination or reclassification of such Common Stock, and prior to the
         expiration of the requisite thirty (30) Trading Day or ten (10) Trading
         Day period, as set forth above, after the ex-dividend date for such
         dividend or distribution, or the record date for such subdivision,
         combination or reclassification, then, and in each such case, the
         "current market price" shall be properly adjusted to take into account
         ex-dividend trading. The closing price for each day shall be the last
         sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale takes place on such
         day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in
         either case as reported in the principal consolidated transaction
         reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to
         trading on the principal national securities exchange on which the
         shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading or, if the
         shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any
         national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so
         quoted, the average of the high bid and the low asked prices in the
         over-the-counter market, as reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market
         ("Nasdaq") or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date
         the shares of Common Stock are not quoted by any such organization, the
         average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a
         professional market maker making a market in the Common Stock selected
         by the Board of Directors. If on any such date no market maker is
         making a market in the Common Stock, the fair value of such shares on
         such date as determined in

                                       19
<PAGE>   21
         good faith by the Board of Directors shall be used. The term "Trading
         Day" shall mean a day on which Nasdaq or any national securities
         exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to
         trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the shares of
         Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on Nasdaq or any
         national securities exchange, a Business Day. If the Common Stock is
         not publicly held or not so listed or traded, "current market price"
         per share shall mean the fair value per share as determined in good
         faith by the Board of Directors, whose determination shall be described
         in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for
         all purposes.

                  (ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the
         "current market price" per share of Preferred Stock shall be determined
         in the same manner as set forth above for the Common Stock in clause
         (i) of this Section 11(d) (other than the last sentence thereof). If
         the current market price per share of Preferred Stock cannot be
         determined in the manner provided above or if the Preferred Stock is
         not publicly held or listed or traded in a manner described in clause
         (i) of this Section 11(d), the "current market price" per share of
         Preferred Stock shall be conclusively deemed to be an amount equal to
         1,000 (as such number may be appropriately adjusted for such events as
         stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to the
         Common Stock occurring after the date of this Agreement) multiplied by
         the current market price per share of the Common Stock. If neither the
         Common Stock nor the Preferred Stock is publicly held or so listed or
         traded, "current market price" per share of the Preferred Stock shall
         mean the fair value per share as determined in good faith by the Board
         of Directors, whose determination shall be described in a statement
         filed with the Rights Agent and shall be conclusive for all purposes.
         For all purposes of this Agreement, the "current market price" of one
         one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock shall be equal to the
         "current market price" of one share of Preferred Stock divided by
         1,000.

                  (e) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no
adjustment in the Purchase Price shall be required unless such adjustment would
require an in crease or decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the Purchase
Price; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this Section
11(e) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into
account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 11
shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest ten-millionth of a share of
Preferred Stock, or hundred-thousandth of a share of Common Stock or other
security, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section
11(e), any adjustment required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than
the earlier of (i) three (3) years from the date of the transaction which
mandates such adjustment, or (ii) the Expiration Date.


                                       20
<PAGE>   22
                  (f) If as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section
11(a)(ii) or Section 13(a) hereof, the holder of any Right thereafter exercised
shall become entitled to receive any securities other than Preferred Stock,
thereafter the number of such other securities so receivable upon exercise of
any Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be subject to adjustment from
time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the
provisions with respect to the Preferred Stock contained in Sections 11(a), (b),
(c), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (m), and the provisions of Sections 7, 9,
10, 13 and 14 hereof with respect to the Preferred Stock shall apply on like
terms to any such other securities; provided, however, that the Company shall
not be liable for its inability to reserve and keep available for issuance upon
exercise of the Rights pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii) a number of shares of
Common Stock greater than the number then authorized by the Company's Articles
of Organization but not outstanding or reserved for other purposes.

                  (g) All Rights originally issued by the Company subsequent to
any adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to
purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, the number of one one-thousandths of a
share of Preferred Stock purchasable from time to time hereunder upon exercise
of the Rights, all subject to further adjustment as provided herein.

                  (h) Unless the Company shall have exercised its election as
provided in Section 11(i), upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a
result of the calculations made in Sections 11(b) and (c), each Right
outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall thereafter
evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, that number of
one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock (calculated to the nearest
ten-millionth) obtained by (i) multiplying (x) the number of one one-thousandths
of a share covered by a Right immediately prior to this adjustment, by (y) the
Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such adjustment of the Purchase
Price, and (ii) dividing the product so obtained by the Purchase Price in effect
immediately after such adjustment of the Purchase Price.

                  (i) The Company may elect on or after the date of any
adjustment of the Purchase Price to adjust the number of Rights, in lieu of any
adjustment in the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock
purchasable upon the exercise of a Right. Each of the Rights outstanding after
the adjustment in the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of
one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock for which a Right was
exercisable immediately prior to such adjustment. Each Right held of record
prior to such adjustment of the number of Rights shall become that number of
Rights (calculated to the nearest one-hundred-thousandth) obtained by dividing
the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase
Price by the Purchase Price in effect immediately after adjustment of the
Purchase Price. The Company shall make a public announcement of its election to
adjust the number of Rights, indicating the record date for the adjustment, and,
if known at the time, the amount of the adjustment to be made. This

                                       21
<PAGE>   23
record date may be the date on which the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day
thereafter, but, if the Rights Certificates have been issued, shall be at least
ten (10) days later than the date of the public announcement. If Rights
Certificates have been issued, upon each adjustment of the number of Rights
pursuant to this Section 11(i), the Company shall, as promptly as practicable,
cause to be distributed to holders of record of Rights Certificates on such
record date Rights Certificates evidencing, subject to Section 14 hereof, the
additional Rights to which such holders shall be entitled as a result of such
adjustment, or, at the option of the Company, shall cause to be distributed to
such holders of record in substitution and replacement for the Rights
Certificates held by such holders prior to the date of adjustment, and upon
surrender thereof, if required by the Company, new Rights Certificates
evidencing all the Rights to which such holders shall be entitled after such
adjustment. Rights Certificates so to be distributed shall be issued, executed
and countersigned in the manner provided for herein (and may bear, at the option
of the Company, the adjusted Purchase Price) and shall be registered in the
names of the holders of record of Rights Certificates on the record date
specified in the public announcement.

                  (j) Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase
Price or the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock
issuable upon the exercise of the Rights, the Rights Certificates theretofore
and thereafter issued may continue to express the Purchase Price per one
one-thousandth of a share and the number of one one-thousandths of a share which
were expressed in the initial Rights Certificates issued hereunder.

                  (k) Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment
reducing the Purchase Price below the then stated value, if any, of the number
of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock issuable upon exercise of
the Rights, the Company shall take any corporate action which may, in the
opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and
legally issue such number of one one-thousandths of a share of fully paid and
nonassessable Preferred Stock at such adjusted Purchase Price.

                  (l) In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an
adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a
specified event, the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of such
event the issuance to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date
the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock and other
capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise
over and above the number of one one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock
and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any, issuable upon such
exercise on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior to such adjustment;
provided, however, that the Company shall deliver to such holder a due bill or
other appropriate instrument evidencing such holder's right to receive such
additional shares (fractional or otherwise) or securities upon the occurrence of
the event requiring such adjustment.

                                       22
<PAGE>   24
                  (m) Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary
notwithstanding, the Company shall be entitled to make such reductions in the
Purchase Price, in addition to those adjustments expressly required by this
Section 11, as and to the extent that in their good faith judgment the Board of
Directors of the Company shall determine to be advisable in order that any (i)
consolidation or subdivision of the Preferred Stock, (ii) issuance wholly for
cash of any shares of Preferred Stock at less than the current market price,
(iii) issuance wholly for cash of shares of Preferred Stock or securities which
by their terms are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Preferred
Stock, (iv) stock dividends or (v) issuance of rights, options or warrants
referred to in this Section 11, hereafter made by the Company to holders of its
Preferred Stock shall not be taxable to such stockholders.

                  (n) The Company covenants and agrees that it shall not, at any
time after the Distribution Date, (i) consolidate with any other Person (other
than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies with Section
11(o) hereof), (ii) merge with or into any other Person (other than a Subsidiary
of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or
(iii) sell or transfer (or permit any Subsidiary to sell or transfer), in one
transaction, or a series of related transactions, assets or earning power
aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company and its
Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than the
Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of which
complies with Section 11(o) hereof), if (x) at the time of or immediately after
such consolidation, merger or sale there are any rights, warrants or other
instruments or securities outstanding or agreements in effect that would
substantially diminish or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be
afforded by the Rights or (y) prior to, simultaneously with or immediately after
such consolidation, merger or sale, the shareholders of the Person who
constitutes, or would constitute, the "Principal Party" for purposes of Section
13(a) hereof shall have received a distribution of Rights previously owned by
such Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates. The Company shall not
consummate any such consolidation, merger, sale or transfer unless prior thereto
the Company and such other Person shall have executed and delivered to the
Rights Agent a supplemental agreement evidencing compliance with this Section
11(n).

                  (o) The Company covenants and agrees that, after the
Distribution Date, it will not, except as permitted by Section 23, Section 24 or
Section 27 hereof, take (or permit any Subsidiary to take) any action if at the
time such action is taken it is reasonably foreseeable that such action will
diminish substantially or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be
afforded by the Rights.

                  (p) Anything in this Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding, in the event that the Company shall at any time after the
Record Date and prior to the Distribution Date (i) declare or pay any dividend
on the outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock,
(ii) subdivide the outstanding

                                       23
<PAGE>   25
shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock
into a smaller number of shares, the number of Rights associated with each share
of Common Stock then outstanding, or issued or delivered thereafter but prior to
the Distribution Date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the number of
Rights thereafter associated with each share of Common Stock following any such
event shall equal the result obtained by multiplying the number of Rights
associated with each share of Common Stock immediately prior to such event by a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately prior to the occurrence of such event and the
denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately following the occurrence of such event.

         Section 12. Certificate of Adjusted Purchase Price or Number of Shares.
Whenever an adjustment is made as provided in Section 11 or Section 13 hereof,
the Company shall (a) promptly prepare a certificate setting forth such
adjustment and a brief statement of the facts accounting for such adjustment,
(b) promptly file with the Rights Agent, and with each transfer agent for the
Preferred Stock and the Common Stock, a copy of such certificate, and (c) mail a
brief summary thereof to each holder of a Rights Certificate (or, if prior to
the Distribution Date, to each holder of a certificate representing shares of
Common Stock) in accordance with Section 26 hereof. The Rights Agent shall be
fully protected in relying on any such certificate and on any adjustment therein
contained and shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment unless and
until it shall have received such certificate.

         Section 13. Consolidation, Merger or Sale or Transfer of Assets or
Earning Power.

                  (a) In the event that, at any time after a Person has become
an Acquiring Person, (x) the Company shall consolidate with, or merge with and
into, any other Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction
that complies with Section 11(o) hereof), and the Company shall not be the
continuing or surviving corporation of such consolidation or merger, (y) any
Person (other than a Subsidiary of the Company in a transaction that complies
with Section 11(o) hereof) shall consolidate with, or merge with or into, the
Company, and the Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation of
such consolidation or merger and, in connection with such consolidation or
merger, all or part of the outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be changed
into or exchanged for stock or other securities of any other Person or cash or
any other property, or (z) the Company shall sell or otherwise transfer (or one
or more of its Subsidiaries shall sell or otherwise transfer), in one
transaction or a series of related transactions, assets or earning power
aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company and its
Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any Person or Persons (other than the Company
or any Subsidiary of the Company in one or more transactions each of which
complies with Section 11(o) hereof), then, and in each such case and except as
contemplated by

                                       24
<PAGE>   26
Section 13(d) hereof, proper provision shall be made so that: (i) each holder of
a Right, except as provided in Section 7(e) hereof, shall thereafter have the
right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at the then current Purchase Price
in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, such number of validly
authorized and issued, fully paid, non-assessable and freely tradeable shares of
Common Stock of the Principal Party (as such term is hereinafter defined), not
subject to any liens, encumbrances, rights of first refusal or other adverse
claims, as shall be equal to the result obtained by (1) multiplying the then
current Purchase Price by the number of one one-thousandths of a share of
Preferred Stock for which a Right is exercisable immediately prior to the first
occurrence of a Section 13 Event (or, if a Section 11(a)(ii) Event has occurred
prior to the first occurrence of a Section 13 Event, multiplying the number of
such one one-thousandths of a share for which a Right was exercisable
immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event by the
Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such first occurrence), and (2)
dividing that product (which, following the first occurrence of a Section 13
Event, shall be referred to as the "Purchase Price" for each Right and for all
purposes of this Agreement) by 50% of the current market price (determined
pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) per share of the Common Stock of such
Principal Party on the date of consummation of such Section 13 Event; (ii) such
Principal Party shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by virtue of
such Section 13 Event, all the obligations and duties of the Company pursuant to
this Agreement; (iii) the term "Company" shall thereafter be deemed to refer to
such Principal Party, it being specifically intended that the provisions of
Section 11 hereof shall apply only to such Principal Party following the first
occurrence of a Section 13 Event; (iv) such Principal Party shall take such
steps (including, but not limited to, the reservation of a sufficient number of
shares of its Common Stock) in connection with the consummation of any such
transaction as may be necessary to assure that the provisions hereof shall
thereafter be applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to its
shares of Common Stock thereafter deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights;
and (v) the provisions of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof shall be of no effect
following the first occurrence of any Section 13 Event.

                  (b) "Principal Party" shall mean

                           (i) in the case of any transaction described in
         clause (x) or (y) of the first sentence of Section 13(a), the Person
         that is the issuer of any securities into which shares of Common Stock
         of the Company are converted in such merger or consolidation, and if no
         securities are so issued, the Person that is the other party to such
         merger or consolidation; and

                           (ii) in the case of any transaction described in
         clause (z) of the first sentence of Section 13(a), the Person that is
         the party receiving the greatest portion of the assets or earning power
         transferred pursuant to such transaction or transactions;

                                       25
<PAGE>   27
provided, however, that in any such case, (1) if the Common Stock of such Person
is not at such time and has not been continuously over the preceding twelve (12)
month period registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, and such Person is
a direct or indirect Subsidiary of another Person the Common Stock of which is
and has been so registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to such other Person;
(2) in case such Person is a Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of more than
one Person, the Common Stocks of two or more of which are and have been so
registered, "Principal Party" shall refer to whichever of such Persons is the
issuer of the Common Stock having the greatest aggregate market value; and (3)
in case such Person is owned, directly or indirectly, by a joint venture formed
by two or more Persons that are not owned, directly or indirectly, by the same
Person, the rules set forth in (1) and (2) above shall apply to each of the
chains of ownership having an interest in such joint venture as if such party
were a "Subsidiary" of both or all of such joint ventures and the Principal
Parties in each such chain shall bear the obligations set forth in this Section
13 in the same ratio as their direct or indirect interests in such Person bear
to the total of such interests.

                  (c) The Company shall not consummate any such consolidation,
merger, sale or transfer unless the Principal Party shall have a sufficient
number of authorized shares of its Common Stock which have not been issued or
reserved for issuance to permit the exercise in full of the Rights in accordance
with this Section 13 and unless prior thereto the Company and such Principal
Party shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a supplemental
agreement providing for the terms set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section 13 and further providing that, as soon as practicable after the date of
any consolidation, merger or sale of assets mentioned in paragraph (a) of this
Section 13, the Principal Party will

                           (i) prepare and file a registration statement under
         the Act, with respect to the Rights and the securities purchasable upon
         exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, and will use its best
         efforts to cause such registration statement to (A) become effective as
         soon as practicable after such filing and (B) remain effective (with a
         prospectus at all times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the
         Expiration Date;

                           (ii) use its best efforts to qualify or register the
         Rights and the securities purchasable upon exercise of the Rights under
         the blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as may be necessary or
         appropriate; and

                           (iii) deliver to holders of the Rights historical
         financial statements for the Principal Party and each of its Affiliates
         that comply in all respects with the requirements for registration on
         Form 10 under the Exchange Act.


                                       26
<PAGE>   28
The provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to successive mergers or
consolidations or sales or other transfers. In the event that a Section 13 Event
shall occur at any time after the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, the
Rights which have not theretofore been exercised shall thereafter become
exercisable in the manner described in Section 13(a).

                  (d) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, Section 13 shall not be applicable to a transaction described in
subparagraphs (x) and (y) of Section 13(a) if (i) such transaction is
consummated with a Person or Persons (or a wholly owned subsidiary of any such
Person or Persons) who acquired shares of Common Stock pursuant to a Permitted
Offer, (ii) the price per share of Common Stock paid in such transaction is not
less than the price per share of Common Stock paid to all holders of shares of
Common Stock whose shares were purchased pursuant to such Permitted Offer, and
(iii) the form of consideration paid in such transaction is the same as the form
of consideration paid pursuant to such Permitted Offer. Upon consummation of any
such transaction contemplated by this Section 13(d), all Rights hereunder shall
expire.

         Section 14. Fractional Rights and Fractional Shares.

                  (a) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of
Rights, except prior to the Distribution Date as provided in Section 11(i) or
(p) hereof, or to distribute Rights Certificates that evidence fractional
Rights. In lieu of such fractional Rights, there shall be paid to the registered
holders of the Rights Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights
would otherwise be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the
current market value of a whole Right. For purposes of this Section 14(a), the
current market value of a whole Right shall be the closing price of the Rights
for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date on which such fractional
Rights would have been otherwise issuable. The closing price of the Rights for
any day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale
takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices,
regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated
transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to
trading on the principal national securities exchange on which the Rights are
listed or admitted to trading, or if the Rights are not listed or admitted to
trading on any national securities exchange, the last quoted price or, if not so
quoted, the average of the high bid and the low asked prices in the
over-the-counter market, as reported by Nasdaq or such other system then in use
or, if on any such date the Rights are not quoted by any such organization, the
average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional
market maker making a market in the Rights selected by the Board of Directors.
If on any such date no such market maker is making a market in the Rights, the
fair value of the Rights on such date as determined in good faith by the Board
of Directors shall be used.


                                       27
<PAGE>   29
                  (b) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of
shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions which are integral multiples of
one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) upon exercise of the Rights or
to distribute certificates that evidence fractional shares of Preferred Stock
(other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a
share of Preferred Stock). In lieu of fractional shares of Preferred Stock
(other than fractions which are integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a
share of Preferred Stock), the Company shall pay to the registered holders of
Rights Certificates at the time such Rights are exercised as herein provided an
amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of one
one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock. For purposes of this Section
14(b), the current market value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred
Stock shall be one one-thousandth of the closing price of a share of Preferred
Stock (as determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(ii) hereof) for the Trading Day
immediately prior to the date of such exercise.

                  (c) Following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, the
Company shall not be required to issue fractions of shares of Common Stock upon
exercise of the Rights or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional
shares of Common Stock. In lieu of fractional shares of Common Stock, the
Company shall pay to the registered holders of Rights Certificates at the time
such Rights are exercised as herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same
fraction of the current market price of one (1) share of Common Stock (as
determined pursuant to Section 11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately
prior to the date of such exercise.

                  (d) The holder of a Right by the acceptance of the Rights
expressly waives his right to receive any fractional Rights or any fractional
shares upon exercise of a Right, except as permitted by this Section 14.

         Section 15. Rights of Action. All rights of action in respect of this
Agreement, except the rights of action expressly given to the Rights Agent in
Section 18 hereof, are vested in the respective registered holders of the Rights
Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the registered holders of the
Common Stock); and any registered holder of any Rights Certificate (or, prior to
the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), without the consent of the Rights
Agent or of the holder of any other Rights Certificate (or, prior to the
Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), may, in his own behalf and for his own
benefit, enforce, and may institute and maintain any suit, action or proceeding
against the Company to enforce, or otherwise act in respect of, his right to
exercise the Rights evidenced by such Rights Certificate in the manner provided
in such Rights Certificate and in this Agreement. Without limiting the foregoing
or any remedies available to the holders of Rights, it is specifically
acknowledged that the holders of Rights would not have an adequate remedy at law
for any breach of this Agreement and shall be entitled to specific performance
of the obligations hereunder and injunctive relief against actual or

                                       28
<PAGE>   30
threatened violations of the obligations hereunder of any Person subject to this
Agreement.

         Section 16. Agreement of Rights Holders. Every holder of a Right by
accepting the same consents and agrees with the Company and the Rights Agent and
with every other holder of a Right that:

                  (a) prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights will be
transferable only in connection with the transfer of Common Stock;

                  (b) after the Distribution Date, the Rights Certificates are
transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent if surrendered at
the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purposes, duly endorsed or
accompanied by a proper instrument of transfer and with the appropriate forms
and certificates duly completed and fully executed;

                  (c) subject to Section 6(a) and Section 7(f) hereof, the
Company and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the person in whose name a
Rights Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, the associated Common
Stock certificate) is registered as the absolute owner thereof and of the Rights
evidenced thereby (notwithstanding any notations of ownership or writing on the
Rights Certificates or the associated Common Stock certificate made by anyone
other than the Company or the Rights Agent) for all purposes whatsoever, and
neither the Company nor the Rights Agent, subject to the last sentence of
Section 7(e) hereof, shall be required to be affected by any notice to the
contrary; and

                  (d) notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, neither the Company nor the Rights Agent shall have any liability to
any holder of a Right or other Person as a result of its inability to perform
any of its obligations under this Agreement by reason of any preliminary or
permanent injunction or other order, decree or ruling issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by a governmental, regulatory or administrative agency
or commission, or any statute, rule, regulation or executive order promulgated
or enacted by any governmental authority, prohibiting or otherwise restraining
performance of such obligation; provided, however, the Company must use its best
efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order, decree or ruling and to have
any such order, decree or ruling lifted or otherwise overturned as soon as
possible.

         Section 17. Rights Certificate Holder Not Deemed a Stockholder. No
holder, as such, of any Rights Certificate shall be entitled to vote, receive
dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of the number of one
one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock or any other securities of the
Company which may at any time be issuable on the exercise of the Rights
represented thereby, nor shall anything contained herein or in any Rights
Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder

                                       29
<PAGE>   31
of any Rights Certificate, as such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the
Company or any right to vote for the election of directors or upon any matter
submitted to stockholders at any meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent
to any corporate action, or to receive notice of meetings or other actions
affecting stockholders (except as provided in Section 25 hereof), or to receive
dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights
evidenced by such Rights Certificate shall have been exercised in accordance
with the provisions hereof.

         Section 18. Concerning the Rights Agent.

                  (a) The Company agrees to pay to the Rights Agent reasonable
compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder and, from time to time,
on demand of the Rights Agent, its reasonable expenses and counsel fees and
disbursements and other disbursements incurred in the administration and
execution of this Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties
hereunder. The Company also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to
hold it harmless against, any loss, liability or expense, incurred without gross
negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on the part of the Rights Agent, for
anything done or omitted by the Rights Agent in connection with the acceptance
and administration of this Agreement, including the costs and expenses of
defending against any claim of liability in the premises.

                  (b) The Rights Agent shall be protected and shall incur no
liability for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in
connection with its administration of this Agreement in reliance upon any Rights
Certificate or certificate for Common Stock or for other securities of the
Company, instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement,
affidavit, letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement, or other
paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to be signed, executed and,
where necessary, verified or acknowledged, by the proper Person or Persons, or
otherwise upon the advice of counsel as set forth in Section 20 hereof.

         Section 19. Merger or Consolidation or Change of Name of Rights Agent.

                  (a) Any corporation into which the Rights Agent or any
successor Rights Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or
any corporation resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Rights
Agent or any successor Rights Agent shall be a party, or any corporation
succeeding to the corporate trust or stock transfer business of the Rights Agent
or any successor Rights Agent, shall be the successor to the Rights Agent under
this Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act
on the part of any of the parties hereto; provided, however, that such
corporation would be eligible for appointment as a successor Rights Agent under
the provisions of Section 21 hereof. In case at the time such successor Rights
Agent shall succeed to the agency created by this

                                       30
<PAGE>   32
Agreement, any of the Rights Certificates shall have been countersigned but not
delivered, any such successor Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of a
predecessor Rights Agent and deliver such Rights Certificates so countersigned;
and in case at that time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been
countersigned, any successor Rights Agent may countersign such Rights
Certificates either in the name of the predecessor or in the name of the
successor Rights Agent; and in all such cases such Rights Certificates shall
have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and in this Agreement.

                  (b) In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be
changed and at such time any of the Rights Certificates shall have been
countersigned but not delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature
under its prior name and deliver Rights Certificates so countersigned; and in
case at that time any of the Rights Certificates shall not have been
countersigned, the Rights Agent may countersign such Rights Certificates either
in its prior name or in its changed name; and in all such cases such Rights
Certificates shall have the full force provided in the Rights Certificates and
in this Agreement.

         Section 20. Duties of Rights Agent. The Rights Agent undertakes the
duties and obligations imposed by this Agreement upon the following terms and
conditions, by all of which the Company and the holders of Rights Certificates,
by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound:

                  (a) The Rights Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may
be legal counsel for the Company), and the opinion of such counsel shall be full
and complete authorization and protection to the Rights Agent as to any action
taken or omitted by it in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.

                  (b) Whenever in the performance of its duties under this
Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or
matter (including, without limitation, the identity of any Acquiring Person and
the determination of "current market price") be proved or established by the
Company prior to taking or suffering any action hereunder, such fact or matter
(unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may
be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by a certificate signed by
the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, any
Assistant Treasurer, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company and
delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full authorization
to the Rights Agent for any action taken or suffered in good faith by it under
the provisions of this Agreement in reliance upon such certificate.

                  (c) The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder only for its
own gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.


                                       31
<PAGE>   33
                  (d) The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of
any of the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Agreement or in the
Rights Certificates or be required to verify the same (except as to its
countersignature on such Rights Certificates), but all such statements and
recitals are and shall be deemed to have been made by the Company only.

                  (e) The Rights Agent shall not be under any responsibility in
respect of the validity of this Agreement or the execution and delivery hereof
(except the due execution hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of the
validity or execution of any Rights Certificate (except its countersignature
thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the Company of any
covenant or condition contained in this Agreement or in any Rights Certificate;
nor shall it be responsible for any adjustment required under the provisions of
Section 11, Section 13 or Section 24 hereof or responsible for the manner,
method or amount of any such adjustment or the ascertaining of the existence of
facts that would require any such adjustment (except with respect to the
exercise of Rights evidenced by Rights Certificates after receipt of a
certificate describing any such adjustment, delivered pursuant to Section 12);
nor shall it by any act hereunder be deemed to make any representation or
warranty as to the authorization or reservation of any shares of Common Stock or
Preferred Stock to be issued pursuant to this Agreement or any Rights
Certificate or as to whether any shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock will,
when so issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.

                  (f) The Company agrees that it will perform, execute,
acknowledge and deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and
delivered all such further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may
reasonably be required by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by
the Rights Agent of the provisions of this Agreement.

                  (g) The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to
accept instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from
the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, any
Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer of the Company,
and to apply to such officers for advice or instructions in connection with its
duties, and it shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered to be taken
by it in good faith in accordance with instructions of any such officer. Any
application by the Rights Agent for written instructions from the Company may,
at the option of the Rights Agent, set forth in writing any action proposed to
be taken or omitted by the Rights Agent with respect to its duties or
obligations under this Rights Agreement and the date on and/or after which such
action shall be taken or omitted and the Rights Agent shall not be liable for
any action taken or omitted in accordance with a proposal included in any such
application on or after the date specified therein (which date shall not be less
than five Business Days after the date any such officer actually receives such
application, unless any such officer shall have consented in writing to an
earlier date)

                                       32
<PAGE>   34
unless, prior to taking or omitting any such action, the Rights Agent has
received written instructions in response to such application specifying the
action to be taken or omitted.

                  (h) The Rights Agent and any stockholder, director, officer or
employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other
securities of the Company or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in
which the Company may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the
Company or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not Rights Agent
under this Agreement. Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights Agent from acting
in any other capacity for the Company or for any other legal entity.

                  (i) The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the
rights or powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself
or by or through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be
answerable or accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any
such attorneys or agents or for any loss to the Company resulting from any such
act, default, neglect or misconduct; provided, however, reasonable care was
exercised in the selection and continued employment thereof.

                  (j) No provision of this Agreement shall require the Rights
Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability
in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of its
rights if there shall be reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such
funds or adequate indemnification against such risk or liability is not
reasonably assured to it.

                  (k) If, with respect to any Rights Certificate surrendered to
the Rights Agent for exercise or transfer, the certificate attached to the form
of assignment or form of election to purchase, as the case may be, has not been
completed, the Company and the Rights Agent will deem the beneficial owner of
the rights evidenced by such Rights Certificate to be an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate thereof and such assignment or election to purchase will
not be honored.

         Section 21. Change of Rights Agent. The Rights Agent or any successor
Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under this Agreement
upon thirty (30) days' notice in writing mailed to the Company, and to each
transfer agent of the Common Stock and Preferred Stock, by registered or
certified mail, and to the holders of the Rights Certificates by first-class
mail. The Company may remove the Rights Agent or any successor Rights Agent upon
thirty (30) days' notice in writing, mailed to the Rights Agent or successor
Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each transfer agent of the Common Stock
and Preferred Stock, by registered or certified mail, and to the holders of the
Rights Certificates by first-class mail. If the Rights Agent shall resign or be
removed or shall otherwise become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint
a successor to the Rights Agent. If the Company

                                       33
<PAGE>   35
shall fail to make such appointment within a period of thirty (30) days after
giving notice of such removal or after it has been notified in writing of such
resignation or incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated Rights Agent or by
the holder of a Rights Certificate (who shall, with such notice, submit his
Rights Certificate for inspection by the Company), then any registered holder of
any Rights Certificate may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the
appointment of a new Rights Agent. Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed
by the Company or by such a court, shall be (a) a corporation organized and
doing business under the laws of the United States (or of any state of the
United States) in good standing, which is authorized under such laws to exercise
corporate trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or
examination by federal or state authority and which has at the time of its
appointment as Rights Agent a combined capital and surplus of at least
$50,000,000 or (b) an affiliate of a corporation described in clause (a) of this
sentence. After appointment, the successor Rights Agent shall be vested with the
same powers, rights, duties and responsibilities as if it had been originally
named as Rights Agent without further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights
Agent shall deliver and transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at
the time held by it hereunder, and execute and deliver any further assurance,
conveyance, act or deed necessary for the purpose. Not later than the effective
date of any such appointment, the Company shall file notice thereof in writing
with the predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Common Stock
and the Preferred Stock, and mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered
holders of the Rights Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in
this Section 21, however, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality
or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the appointment
of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be.

         Section 22. Issuance of New Rights Certificates. Notwithstanding any of
the provisions of this Agreement or of the Rights to the contrary, the Company
may, at its option, issue new Rights Certificates evidencing Rights in such form
as may be approved by its Board of Directors to reflect any adjustment or change
in the Purchase Price and the number or kind or class of shares or other
securities or property purchasable under the Rights Certificates made in
accordance with the pro visions of this Agreement. In addition, in connection
with the issuance or sale of shares of Common Stock following the Distribution
Date and prior to the redemption or expiration of the Rights, the Company (a)
shall, with respect to shares of Common Stock so issued or sold pursuant to the
exercise of stock options or under any employee plan or arrangement, or upon the
exercise, conversion or exchange of securities issued by the Company prior to
the Distribution Date, and (b) may, in any other case, if deemed necessary or
appropriate by the Board of Directors of the Company, issue Rights Certificates
representing the appropriate number of Rights in connection with such issuance
or sale; provided, however, that (i) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued
if, and to the extent that, the Company shall be advised by counsel that such
issuance would create a significant risk of material adverse tax consequences to
the Company or the Person to whom such Rights Certificate would

                                       34
<PAGE>   36
be issued, and (ii) no such Rights Certificate shall be issued if, and to the
extent that, appropriate adjustment shall otherwise have been made in lieu of
the issuance thereof.

         Section 23. Redemption and Termination.

                  (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option,
at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date or (ii) the Final
Expiration Date, redeem all but not less than all the then outstanding Rights at
a redemption price of $.001 per Right, as such amount may be appropriately
adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or similar transaction
occurring after the date hereof (such redemption price being hereinafter
referred to as the "Redemption Price"). The redemption of the Rights by the
Board may be made effective at such time, on such basis and with such conditions
as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may establish. The Company may,
at its option, pay the Redemption Price in cash, shares of Common Stock (based
on the "current market price," as defined in Section 11(d)(i) hereof, of the
Common Stock at the time of redemption) or any other form of consideration, or
any combination of any of the foregoing, deemed appropriate by the Board of
Directors of the Company. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement
to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable after the first occurrence
of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event until such time as the Company's right of
redemption hereunder has expired.

                  (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of
the Company ordering the redemption of the Rights, evidence of which shall have
been filed with the Rights Agent and without any further action and without any
notice, the right to exercise the Rights shall terminate and the only right
thereafter of the holders of Rights shall be to receive the Redemption Price for
each Right so held. Promptly after the action of the Board of Directors ordering
the redemption of the Rights, the Company shall give notice of such redemption
to the Rights Agent and the holders of the then outstanding Rights by mailing
such notice to all such holders at each holder's last address as it appears upon
the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on
the registry books of the Transfer Agent for the Common Stock. Any notice which
is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not
the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of redemption will state the
method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will be made.

                  (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 23(a) hereof, in
the event that a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company is elected by
shareholder action by written consent, or is comprised of persons elected at a
meeting of stockholders who were not nominated by the Board of Directors of the
Company in office immediately prior to such meeting, then for a period of one
hundred and twenty (120) days following the effectiveness of such election, the
Rights shall not be

                                       35
<PAGE>   37
redeemed if such redemption is reasonably likely to have the purpose or effect
of allowing any Person to become an Acquiring Person or otherwise facilitating
the occurrence of a Triggering Event or a transaction with an Acquiring Person.

                  (d) The Company may, at its option, discharge all of its
obligations with respect to the Rights by (i) issuing a press release announcing
the manner of redemption of the Rights in accordance with this Agreement and
(ii) mailing payment of the Redemption Price to the registered holders of the
Rights at their last addresses as they appear on the registry books of the
Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the
Transfer Agent of the Common Shares, and upon such action, all outstanding
Rights and Right Certificates shall be null and void without any further action
by the Company.

         Section 24. Exchange.

                  (a) The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option,
at any time after a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, exchange all or part of the then
outstanding and exercisable Rights (which (i) shall not include Rights that have
become void pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof, and (ii) shall
include, without limitation, any Rights issued after the Distribution Date) for
shares of Common Stock at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock per
Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or
similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such exchange ratio being
hereinafter referred to as the "Exchange Ratio"). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the Board of Directors of the Company shall not be empowered to effect such
exchange at any time after any Person (other than the Company, any Subsidiary of
the Company, any employee benefit plan of the Company or any such Subsidiary, or
any entity holding Common Stock for or pursuant to the terms of any such plan),
together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the
Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding.

                  (b) Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of
the Company ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to subsection (a) of
this Section 24, evidence of which shall have been filed with the Rights Agent,
and without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise
such Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder of such
Rights shall be to receive that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the
number of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Exchange Ratio. The
Company shall promptly give public notice of any such exchange; provided,
however, that the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not
affect the validity of such exchange. The Company promptly shall mail a notice
of any such exchange to all of the holders of such Rights at their last
addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent. Any notice
which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or
not the holder receives the notice. Each such notice of

                                       36
<PAGE>   38
exchange shall state the method by which the exchange of shares of Common Stock
for Rights will be effected and, in the event of any partial exchange, the
number of Rights which will be exchanged. Any partial exchange shall be effected
pro rata based on the number of Rights (other than Rights which have become void
pursuant to the provisions of Section 7(e) hereof) held by each holder of
Rights.

                  (c) In any exchange pursuant to this Section 24, the Company,
at its option, may substitute Preferred Stock (or equivalent preferred stock, as
such term is defined in Section 11(b) hereof) for shares of Common Stock
exchangeable for Rights, at the initial rate of one one-thousandth of a share of
Preferred Stock (or equivalent preferred stock) for each share of Common Stock,
as appropriately adjusted to reflect adjustments in the voting rights of the
Preferred Stock pursuant to Section 3(A) of the Certificate of Vote attached
hereto as Exhibit A, so that the fraction of a share of Preferred Stock (or
equivalent preferred stock) delivered in lieu of each share of Common Stock
shall have the same voting rights as one share of Common Stock.

                  (d) In the event that there shall not be sufficient shares of
Common Stock or Preferred Stock issued but not outstanding or authorized but
unissued to permit any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance with
this Section 24, the Company shall take all such action as may be necessary to
authorize additional shares of Common Stock or Preferred Stock for issuance upon
exchange of the Rights.

                  (e) The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of
shares of Common Stock or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional
shares of Common Stock. In lieu of such fractional shares of Common Stock, there
shall be paid to the registered holders of the Right Certificates with regard to
which such fractional shares of Common Stock would otherwise be issuable, an
amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the current market value of a whole
share of Common Stock. For the purposes of this subsection (e), the current
market value of a whole share of Common Stock shall be the closing price per
share of Common Stock (as determined pursuant to the second sentence of Section
11(d)(i) hereof) for the Trading Day immediately prior to the date of exchange
pursuant to this Section 24.

         Section 25. Notice of Certain Events.

                  (a) In case the Company shall propose, at any time after the
Distribution Date, (i) to pay any dividend payable in stock of any class to the
holders of Preferred Stock or to make any other distribution to the holders of
Preferred Stock (other than a regular quarterly cash dividend out of earnings or
retained earnings of the Company), or (ii) to offer to the holders of Preferred
Stock rights or warrants to subscribe for or to purchase any additional shares
of Preferred Stock or shares of stock of any class or any other securities,
rights or options, or (iii) to effect any reclassification of its Preferred
Stock (other than a reclassification involving only the subdivision of
outstanding shares of Preferred Stock), or (iv) to effect any

                                       37
<PAGE>   39
consolidation or merger into or with any other Person (other than a Subsidiary
of the Company in a transaction which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or to
effect any sale or other transfer (or to permit one or more of its Subsidiaries
to effect any sale or other transfer), in one transaction or a series of related
transactions, of more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company and
its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to any other Person or Persons (other than
the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries in one or more transactions each of
which complies with Section 11(o) hereof), or (v) to effect the liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company, then, in each such case, the Company
shall give to each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in
accordance with Section 26 hereof, a notice of such proposed action, which shall
specify the record date for the purposes of such stock dividend, distribution of
rights or warrants, or the date on which such reclassification, consolidation,
merger, sale, transfer, liquidation, dissolution, or winding up is to take place
and the date of participation therein by the holders of the shares of Preferred
Stock, if any such date is to be fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the
case of any action covered by clause (i) or (ii) above at least twenty (20) days
prior to the record date for determining holders of the shares of Preferred
Stock for purposes of such action, and in the case of any such other action, at
least twenty (20) days prior to the date of the taking of such proposed action
or the date of participation therein by the holders of the shares of Preferred
Stock, whichever shall be the earlier.

                  (b) In case a Section 11(a)(ii) Event shall occur, then, in
any such case, (i) the Company shall as soon as practicable thereafter give to
each holder of a Rights Certificate, to the extent feasible and in accordance
with Section 26 hereof, a notice of the occurrence of such event, which shall
specify the event and the consequences of the event to holders of Rights under
Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, and (ii) all references in the preceding paragraph to
Preferred Stock shall be deemed thereafter to refer also to Common Stock and/or,
if appropriate, other securities.


         Section 26. Notices. Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to
be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of any Rights Certificate
to or on the Company shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class
mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is filed in writing with
the Rights Agent) as follows:

                          Analog Devices, Inc.
                          One Technology Way
                          P.O. Box 9106
                          Norwood, MA 02062-5643

Subject to the provisions of Section 21, any notice or demand authorized by this
Agreement to be given or made by the Company or by the holder of any Rights

                                       38
<PAGE>   40
Certificate to or on the Rights Agent shall be sufficiently given or made if
sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed (until another address is
filed in writing with the Company) as follows:

                          BankBoston N.A.
                          c/o Boston EquiServe Limited Partnership
                          150 Royall Street
                          Mail Stop 450262
                          Canton, MA 02021

Notices or demands authorized by this Agreement to be given or made by the
Company or the Rights Agent to the holder of any Rights Certificate (or, if
prior to the Distribution Date, to the holder of certificates representing
shares of Common Stock) shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by
first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to such holder at the address of
such holder as shown on the registry books of the Company.

         Section 27. Supplements and Amendments. Except as provided in the
penultimate sentence of this Section 27, for so long as the Rights are then
redeemable, the Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion, and the Rights
Agent shall, if the Company so directs, supplement or amend any provision of
this Agreement in any respect without the approval of any holders of the Rights.
At any time when the Rights are no longer redeemable, except as provided in the
penultimate sentence of this Section 27, the Company may, and the Rights Agent
shall, if the Company so directs, supplement or amend this Agreement without the
approval of any holders of Rights in order (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to
correct or supplement any provision contained herein which may be defective or
inconsistent with any other provisions herein, (iii) to shorten or lengthen any
time period hereunder, or (iv) to change or supplement the provisions hereunder
in any manner which the Company may deem necessary or desirable, provided that
no such supplement or amendment shall adversely affect the interests of the
holders of Rights as such (other than an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or
Associate of an Acquiring Person); and provided further, that this Agreement may
not be supplemented or amended to lengthen, pursuant to clause (iii) of this
sentence, (A) a time period relating to when the Rights may be redeemed, or (B)
any other time period unless such lengthening is for the purpose of protecting,
enhancing or clarifying the rights of, and/or the benefits to, the holders of
Rights. Upon the delivery of a certificate from an appropriate officer of the
Company which states that the proposed supplement or amendment is in compliance
with the terms of this Section 27, the Rights Agent shall execute such
supplement or amendment. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to
the contrary, (i) no supplement or amendment shall be made which changes the
Redemption Price or the Final Expiration Date, and (ii) from and after the time
that any Person shall become an Acquiring Person (other than pursuant to a
Permitted Offer), but prior to the expiration of the right of redemption set
forth in Section 23(a),

                                       39
<PAGE>   41
this Agreement may be amended or supplemented only if at such time there are not
less than two Continuing Directors and such amendment or supplement is approved
by a majority of Continuing Directors in office. Prior to the Distribution Date,
the interests of the holders of Rights shall be deemed coincident with the
interests of the holders of Common Stock.

         Section 28. Successors. All the covenants and provisions of this
Agreement by or for the benefit of the Company or the Rights Agent shall bind
and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns hereunder.

         Section 29. Actions by the Board of Directors, etc. The Board of
Directors of the Company shall have the exclusive power and authority to
administer this Agreement and to exercise all rights and powers specifically
granted to the Board or to the Company, or as may be necessary or advisable in
the administration of this Agreement, including, without limitation, the right
and power to (i) interpret the provisions of this Agreement, and (ii) make all
determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of this
Agreement (including a determination to redeem or not redeem the Rights or to
amend this Agreement). All such actions, calculations, interpretations and
determinations (including, for purposes of clause (y) below, all omissions with
respect to the foregoing) which are done or made by the Board in good faith,
shall (x) be final, conclusive and binding on the Company, the Rights Agent, the
holders of the Rights and all other parties, and (y) not subject the Board to
any liability to the holders of the Rights.

         Section 30. Benefits of this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall
be construed to give to any Person other than the Company, the Rights Agent and
the registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the
Distribution Date, registered holders of the Common Stock) any legal or
equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement; but this Agreement shall
be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company, the Rights Agent and the
registered holders of the Rights Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution
Date, registered holders of the Common Stock).

         Section 31. Severability. If any term, provision, covenant or
restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or
other authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the
terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement shall remain in
full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated;
provided, however, that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the
contrary, if any such term, provision, covenant or restriction is held by such
court or authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable and the Board of
Directors of the Company determines in its good faith judgment that severing the
invalid, void or unenforceable language from this Agreement would adversely
affect the purpose or effect of this Agreement, the right of redemption set
forth in Section 23 hereof shall be reinstated and shall not expire until the
close of

                                       40
<PAGE>   42
business on the tenth day following the date of such determination by the Board
of Directors of the Company.

         Section 32. Governing Law. This Agreement, each Right and each Rights
Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the
laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and for all purposes shall be governed
by and construed in accordance with the laws of Massachusetts applicable to
contracts made and to be performed entirely within Massachusetts.

         Section 33. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number
of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed
to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one
and the same instrument.

         Section 34. Descriptive Headings. Descriptive headings of the several
Sections of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not
control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions hereof.


                  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this
Agreement to be duly executed and their respective corporate seals to be
hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the day and year first above written.

Attest:                                     ANALOG DEVICES, INC.



By:  /S/  PAUL P. BROUNTAS              By:  /S/  JERALD G. FISHMAN
     ---------------------                   -----------------------------------
   Name:  Paul P. Brountas                 Name:  Jerald G. Fishman
   Title: Clerk                            Title: President and Chief Executive
                                                    Officer


Attest:                                     BANKBOSTON N.A.



By:  /S/  TYLER HAYNES                       By:  /S/  KATHERINE ANDERSON
     ---------------------                        ------------------------------
   Name:  Tyler Haynes                          Name:  Katherine Anderson
   Title: Director, Client Services             Title: Director, Client Services




                                       41
<PAGE>   43
                                                              Exhibit A


                        CERTIFICATE OF VOTE OF DIRECTORS
                     ESTABLISHING A CLASS OR SERIES OF STOCK

       (Pursuant to Massachusetts General Laws, Chapter 156B, Section 26)


VOTED:            That pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the
                  Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter called the
                  "Board of Directors" or the "Board") in accordance with the
                  provisions of the Articles of Organization, as amended, the
                  Board of Directors hereby creates a series of Preferred Stock,
                  $1.00 par value per share (the "Preferred Stock"), of the
                  Corporation and hereby states the designation and number of
                  shares, and fixes the relative rights, preferences and
                  limitations thereof as follows:

                 SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK:

         Section 1. Designation and Amount. The shares of such series shall be
designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A
Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred
Stock shall be three hundred thousand (300,000). Such number of shares may be
increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors prior to
issuance; provided, that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series
A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding
plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding
options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities
issued by the Corporation convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.

         Section 2. Dividends and Distributions.

         (A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of
Preferred Stock (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series
A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $.162/3
per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Corporation, and of any other junior
stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of
Directors out of funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of
dividends, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the last day of each fiscal
quarter of the Corporation in each year (each such date being referred to herein
as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly
Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share
of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest
cent) equal to the greater of (a) $100 or (b) subject to the provision for
adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of
all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount
<PAGE>   44
(payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions, other than a
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding
shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the
Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or,
with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first
issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the
event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision,
combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were
entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding
sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. In
the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the
Series A Preferred Stock payable in shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or
effect a subdivision, combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of
Series A Preferred Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a
dividend in shares of Series A Preferred Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, then in each such case the amount to
which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately
prior to such event under clause (b) of the first sentence of this Section 2(A)
shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of
which is the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock that were outstanding
immediately prior to such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding immediately after such event.

         (B) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the
Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section
immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock
(other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock) and the Corporation
shall pay such dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock before
the dividend or distribution declared on the Common Stock is paid or set apart;
provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared
on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment
Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $100
per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such
subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.

         (C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding
shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next
preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such
shares is

                                        2
<PAGE>   45
prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which
case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of
such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or
is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before
such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends
shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment
Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on
the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount
of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be
allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time
outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination
of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of
a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more
than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.

         Section 3. Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have the following voting rights:

         (A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each
share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000
votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation.
In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on
the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision,
combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common
Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each
such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted
by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number
of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event. In the event the Corporation shall
at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock payable
in shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or effect a subdivision, combination or
consolidation of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Series
A Preferred Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to
such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding immediately after such
event.


                                        3
<PAGE>   46
         (B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in the Articles of
Organization or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and
the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the
Corporation having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all
matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.

         (C) (i) If at any time dividends on any Series A Preferred Stock shall
be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, the holders
of the Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate series from all other
series of Preferred Stock and classes of capital stock, shall be entitled to
elect two members of the Board of Directors in addition to any Directors elected
by any other series, class or classes of securities and the authorized number of
Directors will automatically be increased by two. Promptly thereafter, the Board
of Directors of the Corporation shall, as soon as may be practicable, call a
special meeting of holders of Series A Preferred Stock for the purpose of
electing such members of the Board of Directors. Such special meeting shall in
any event be held within 45 days of the occurrence of such arrearage.

                  (ii) During any period when the holders of Series A Preferred
Stock, voting as a separate series, shall be entitled and shall have exercised
their right to elect two Directors, then, and during such time as such right
continues, (a) the then authorized number of Directors shall be increased by
two, and the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate series,
shall be entitled to elect the additional Directors so provided for, and (b)
each such additional Director shall not be a member of any existing class of the
Board of Directors, but shall serve until the next annual meeting of
stockholders for the election of Directors, or until his successor shall be
elected and shall qualify, or until his right to hold such office terminates
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3(C).

                  (iii) A Director elected pursuant to the terms hereof may be
removed with or without cause by the holders of Series A Preferred Stock
entitled to vote in an election of such Director.

                  (iv) If, during any interval between annual meetings of
stockholders for the election of Directors and while the holders of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be entitled to elect two Directors, there is no such
Director in office by reason of resignation, death or removal, then, promptly
thereafter, the Board of Directors shall call a special meeting of the holders
of Series A Preferred Stock for the purpose of filling such vacancy and such
vacancy shall be filled at such special meeting. Such special meeting shall in
any event be held within 45 days of the occurrence of such vacancy.

                  (v) At such time as the arrearage is fully cured, and all
dividends accumulated and unpaid on any shares of Series A Preferred Stock
outstanding are

                                        4
<PAGE>   47
paid, and, in addition thereto, at least one regular dividend has been paid
subsequent to curing such arrearage, the term of office of any Director elected
pursuant to this Section 3(C), or his successor, shall automatically terminate,
and the authorized number of Directors shall automatically decrease by two, the
rights of the holders of the shares of the Series A Preferred Stock to vote as
provided in this Section 3(C) shall cease, subject to renewal from time to time
upon the same terms and conditions, and the holders of shares of the Series A
Preferred Stock shall have only the limited voting rights elsewhere herein set
forth.

         (D) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law,
holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and
their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to
vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate
action.

         Section 4. Certain Restrictions.

         (A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions
payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears,
thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether
or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have
been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:

                  (i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions,
on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;

                  (ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other
distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to
dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A
Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock
and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in
proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then
entitled;

                  (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for
consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock,
provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise
acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of
the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution,
liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or

                  (iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration
any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a
parity with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase
offer made in writing

                                        5
<PAGE>   48
or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of
such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of
the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences
of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result
in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.

         (B) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation
to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the
Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4,
purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.

         Section 5. Reacquired Shares. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever
shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such
shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of
Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock
subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein, in the
Articles of Organization, or in any other Certificate of Vote creating a series
of Preferred Stock or any similar stock or as otherwise required by law.

         Section 6. Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up.

         (A) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation,
no distribution shall be made (1) to the holders of shares of stock ranking
junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up)
to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $1000 per share, plus an amount
equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not
declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per
share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to
1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of
shares of Common Stock, or (2) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a
parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up)
with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the
Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total
amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such
liquidation, dissolution or winding up.

         (B) Neither the consolidation, merger or other business combination of
the Corporation with or into any other corporation nor the sale, lease, exchange
or conveyance of all or any part of the property, assets or business of the
Corporation shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of
the Corporation for purposes of this Section 6.


                                        6
<PAGE>   49
         (C) In the event the Corporation shall at any time declare or pay any
dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a
subdivision, combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common
Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares
of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then
in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso
in clause (1) of paragraph (A) of this Section 6 shall be adjusted by
multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event. In the event the Corporation shall
at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock payable
in shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or effect a subdivision, combination or
consolidation of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Series
A Preferred Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of
shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event
under the proviso in clause (1) of paragraph (A) of this Section 6 shall be
adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the
number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock that were outstanding immediately
prior to such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock outstanding immediately after such event.

         Section 7. Consolidation, Merger, etc. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained herein, in case the Corporation shall enter into any
consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of
Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash
and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A
Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed into an
amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth,
equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any
other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which
each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation
shall at any time declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in
shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision, combination or consolidation of
the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by
payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number
of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the
preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding
immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event. In
the event the Corporation shall at

                                        7
<PAGE>   50
any time declare or pay any dividend on the Series A Preferred Stock payable in
shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or effect a subdivision, combination or
consolidation of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock (by
reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Series
A Preferred Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the first
sentence of this Section 7 with respect to the exchange or change of shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event and the denominator
of which is the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding
immediately after such event.

         Section 8. No Redemption. The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall
not be redeemable.

         Section 9. Rank. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect
to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, junior to all series
of any other class of the Preferred Stock issued either before or after the
issuance of the Series A Preferred Stock, unless the terms of any such series
shall provide otherwise.

         Section 10. Amendment. At such time as any shares of Series A Preferred
Stock are outstanding, the Articles of Organization, as amended, of the
Corporation shall not be amended in any manner which would materially alter or
change the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock
so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of at
least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting
together as a single class.

         Section 11. Fractional Shares. Series A Preferred Stock may be issued
in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such
holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends,
participate in distributions and have the benefit of all other rights of holders
of Series A Preferred Stock.


                                        8
<PAGE>   51
                                                              Exhibit B


                          [Form of Rights Certificate]


Certificate No. R-                                     ______ Rights

NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER MARCH 17, 2008 OR EARLIER IF REDEEMED OR EXCHANGED BY THE
COMPANY. THE RIGHTS ARE SUBJECT TO REDEMPTION AT $.001 PER RIGHT AND TO EXCHANGE
ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT. UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES,
RIGHTS BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERM IS DEFINED IN THE
RIGHTS AGREEMENT) AND ANY SUBSEQUENT HOLDER OF SUCH RIGHTS MAY BECOME NULL AND
VOID. [THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED BY THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE ARE OR WERE
BENEFICIALLY OWNED BY A PERSON WHO WAS OR BECAME AN ACQUIRING PERSON OR AN
AFFILIATE OR ASSOCIATE OF AN ACQUIRING PERSON (AS SUCH TERMS ARE DEFINED IN THE
RIGHTS AGREEMENT). ACCORDINGLY, THIS RIGHTS CERTIFICATE AND THE RIGHTS
REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES SPECIFIED IN
SECTION 7(e) OF SUCH AGREEMENT.](1)


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                               Rights Certificate

         This certifies that ____________, or registered assigns, is the
registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which entitles
the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Rights
Agreement, dated as of March 18, 1998 (the "Rights Agreement"), between Analog
Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company"), and BankBoston N.A.
(the "Rights Agent"), to purchase from the Company after the Distribution Date
(as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) and at any time prior to 5:00
p.m. (Boston time) on March 17, 2008 at the office of the Rights Agent
designated for such purpose, or its successors as Rights Agent, one
one-thousandth of a fully paid, non-assessable share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock (the "Preferred Stock") of the Company, $1.00 par
value per share, at a purchase price of $180 in cash per one


- --------

         (1) The portion of the legend in brackets shall be inserted only if
applicable and shall replace the preceding sentence.


                        Front Side of Rights Certificate
<PAGE>   52
one-thousandth of a share (the "Purchase Price"), upon presentation and
surrender of this Rights Certificate with the Form of Election to Purchase and
related Certificate duly executed. The number of Rights evidenced by this Rights
Certificate (and the number of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock
which may be purchased upon exercise hereof) set forth above, and the Purchase
Price set forth above, are the number and Purchase Price as of the close of
business on March 18, 1998, based on the Preferred Stock as constituted at such
date. Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have
the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Rights Agreement.

         Upon the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, if the Rights
evidenced by this Rights Certificate are beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring
Person or an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms
are defined in the Rights Agreement), (ii) a transferee of any such Acquiring
Person, Associate or Affiliate who becomes a transferee after the Acquiring
Person becomes an Acquiring Person, or (iii) under certain circumstances
specified in the Rights Agreement, a transferee of a person who, concurrently
with or after such transfer, became an Acquiring Person, or an Affiliate or
Associate of an Acquiring Person, such Rights shall become null and void and no
holder hereof shall have any right with respect to such Rights from and after
the occurrence of such Section 11(a)(ii) Event.

         As provided in the Rights Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number
and kind of shares of Preferred Stock or other securities which may be purchased
upon the exercise of the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate are subject
to modification and adjustment upon the happening of certain events, including
Section 11(a)(ii) Events.

         This Rights Certificate is subject to all of the terms, provisions and
conditions of the Rights Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are
hereby incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which
Rights Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights,
limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities hereunder of the
Rights Agent, the Company and the holders of the Rights Certificates, which
limitations of rights include the temporary suspension of the exercisability of
such Rights under the specific circumstances set forth in the Rights Agreement.
Copies of the Rights Agreement are on file at the principal offices of the
Company and are available upon written request to the Company.

         This Rights Certificate, with or without other Rights Certificates,
upon surrender at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such purpose,
with the Form of Election and Certificate set forth on the reverse side duly
executed, may be exchanged for another Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates
of like tenor and date evidencing Rights entitling the holder to purchase a like
aggregate number of one

                        Front Side of Rights Certificate

                                        2
<PAGE>   53
one-thousandths of a share of Preferred Stock as the Rights evidenced by the
Rights Certificate or Rights Certificates surrendered shall have entitled such
holder to purchase. If this Rights Certificate shall be exercised in part, the
holder shall be entitled to receive upon surrender hereof another Rights
Certificate or Rights Certificates for the number of whole Rights not exercised.

         Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, the Rights evidenced
by this Certificate may be redeemed by the Company at its option at a redemption
price of $.001 per Right at any time prior to the earlier of (i) the
Distribution Date and (ii) the Final Expiration Date.

         Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, the Company may, at
its option, at any time after a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, exchange all or part of
the Rights evidenced by this Certificate for shares of the Company's Common
Stock or for Preferred Stock (or shares of a class or series of the Company's
preferred stock having the same rights, privileges and preferences as the
Preferred Stock).

         No fractional shares of Preferred Stock will be issued upon the
exercise of any Right or Rights evidenced hereby (other than fractions which are
integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock, which
may, at the election of the Company, be evidenced by depositary receipts), but
in lieu thereof a cash payment will be made, as provided in the Rights
Agreement.

         No holder of this Rights Certificate, as such, shall be entitled to
vote or receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of shares of
Preferred Stock or of any other securities of the Company which may at any time
be issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Rights
Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any
of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote for the
election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any
meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to
receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as
provided in the Rights Agreement), or to receive dividends or subscription
rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights evidenced by this Rights
Certificate shall have been exercised as provided in the Rights Agreement.

         This Rights Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any
purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Rights Agent.



                        Front Side of Rights Certificate

                                        3
<PAGE>   54
         WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Company
and its corporate seal.

Dated as of __________________


ATTEST:                                 ANALOG DEVICES, INC.



______________________________          By:____________________________
Secretary
                                        Title:_________________________


COUNTERSIGNED:

BANKBOSTON N.A.


By:___________________________
    Authorized Signature


                        Front Side of Rights Certificate

                                        4
<PAGE>   55
                  [Form of Reverse Side of Rights Certificate]

                               FORM OF ASSIGNMENT

                (To be executed by the registered holder if such
              holder desires to transfer the Rights Certificate.)


FOR VALUE RECEIVED _____________________________________________ hereby sells,
assigns and transfers unto _____________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________
                  (Please print name and address of transferee)
_________________________________________________________________________ this
Rights Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and
does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint ______________________ Attorney,
to transfer the within Rights Certificate on the books of the within-named
Company, with full power of substitution.



Dated:  ________________


                                        ______________________________
                                        Signature


Signature Guaranteed:

                                   Certificate


         The undersigned hereby certifies that the Rights evidenced by this
Rights Certificate are not beneficially owned by, or being assigned to, an
Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined
pursuant to the Rights Agreement).

Dated:  ______________
                                        ______________________________
                                        Signature

Signature Guaranteed:





                       Reverse Side of Rights Certificate
<PAGE>   56
                                     NOTICE

         The signature to the foregoing Assignment and Certificate must
correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate in
every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.






                       Reverse Side of Rights Certificate
<PAGE>   57
                          FORM OF ELECTION TO PURCHASE

                  (To be executed if holder desires to exercise
                 Rights represented by the Rights Certificate.)

To: BankBoston N.A.

         The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise ___________
Rights represented by this Rights Certificate to purchase the shares of
Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights (or such other
securities of the Company or of any other person which may be issuable upon the
exercise of the Rights) and requests that certificates for such shares be issued
in the name of and delivered to:

Please insert social security
or other identifying number   __________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
                         (Please print name and address)

________________________________________________________________________________

         If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights evidenced by this
Rights Certificate, a new Rights Certificate for the balance of such Rights
shall be registered in the name of and delivered to:

Please insert social security
or other identifying number   __________________________________________________

________________________________________________________________________________
                         (Please print name and address)

________________________________________________________________________________


Dated:  ______________
                                        ______________________________
                                        Signature

Signature Guaranteed:




                       Reverse Side of Rights Certificate
<PAGE>   58
                                   Certificate

         The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes
that:

         (1) the Rights evidenced by this Rights Certificate [ ] are [ ] are not
being exercised by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or
an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as such terms are defined pursuant to the
Rights Agreement);

         (2) after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned, the
undersigned [ ] did [ ] did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Rights
Certificate from any Person who is, was or became an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate thereof.


Dated:  _______________

                                        ______________________________
                                        Signature

Signature Guaranteed:



                                     NOTICE

         The signature to the foregoing Election to Purchase and Certificate
must correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Rights Certificate
in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.




                       Reverse Side of Rights Certificate
<PAGE>   59
                                                                       Exhibit C

                 SUMMARY OF RIGHTS TO PURCHASE PREFERRED STOCK
 
     On March 10, 1998, the Board of Directors of ANALOG DEVICES, INC. (the
"Company"), declared a dividend of one Right for each outstanding share of the
Company's Common Stock to stockholders of record at the close of business on
March 23, 1998 (the "Record Date"). Each Right entitles the registered holder to
purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Junior
Participating Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value per share (the "Preferred
Stock"), at a Purchase Price of $180 in cash, subject to adjustment. The
description and terms of the Rights are set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as
of March 18, 1998 (the "Rights Agreement") between the Company and BankBoston
N.A., as Rights Agent.
 
     Initially, the Rights will be attached to all Common Stock certificates
representing shares then outstanding, and no separate Rights Certificates will
be distributed. The Rights will separate from the Common Stock and a
Distribution Date will occur upon the earlier of (i) 10 business days (or such
later date as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company)
following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or
associated persons (an "Acquiring Person") has acquired, or obtained the right
to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of
Common Stock (the "Stock Acquisition Date"), or (ii) 10 business days (or such
later date as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Company)
following the commencement of a tender offer or exchange offer that would result
in a person or group beneficially owning 20% or more of such outstanding shares
of Common Stock. Until the Distribution Date (or earlier redemption or
expiration of the rights), (i) the Rights will be evidenced by the Common Stock
certificates and will be transferred with and only with such Common Stock
certificates, (ii) new Common Stock certificates issued after the Record Date
will contain a notation incorporating the Rights Agreement by reference and
(iii) the surrender for transfer of any certificates for Common Stock
outstanding, even without such notation, will also constitute the transfer of
the Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificate.
 
     The Rights are not exercisable until the Distribution Date and will expire
upon the earliest of the close of business on March 17, 2008 (the "Final
Expiration Date") unless earlier redeemed or exchanged as described below. As
soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, separate Rights Certificates
will be mailed to holders of record of the Common Stock as of the close of
business on the Distribution Date and, thereafter, the separate Rights
Certificates alone will represent the Rights. Except as otherwise determined by
the Board of Directors, and except for shares of Common Stock issued upon
exercise, conversion or exchange of then outstanding options, convertible or
exchangeable securities or other contingent obligations to issue shares, only
shares of Common Stock issued prior to the Distribution Date will be issued with
Rights.
 
     In the event that any Person becomes an Acquiring Person, unless the event
causing the 15% threshold to be crossed is a Permitted Offer (as defined in the
Rights Agreement), then, promptly following the first occurrence of such event,
each holder of a Right (except as provided below and in Section 7(e) of the
Rights Agreement) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon exercise,
that number of shares of Common Stock of the Company (or, in certain
circumstances, cash, property or other securities of the Company) which equals
the exercise price of the Right divided by 50% of the current market price (as
defined in the Rights Agreement) per share of Common Stock at the date of the
occurrence of such event. However, Rights are not exercisable following such
event until such time as the Rights are no longer redeemable by the Company as
described below. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, following the occurrence
of such event, all Rights that are, or (under certain circumstances specified in
the Rights Agreement) were, beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person will be
null and void. The event summarized in this paragraph is referred to as a
"Section 11(a)(ii) Event."
 
     In the event that, at any time after any Person becomes an Acquiring
Person, (i) the Company is consolidated with, or merged with and into, another
entity and the Company is not the surviving entity of such consolidation or
merger (other than a consolidation or merger which follows a Permitted Offer) or
if the Company is the surviving entity, but shares of its outstanding Common
Stock are changed or exchanged for stock or securities (of any other person) or
cash or any other property, or (ii) 50% or more of the Company's assets or
earning power is sold or transferred, each holder of a Right (except Rights
which previously have
 
<PAGE>   60
 
been voided as set forth above) shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon
exercise, that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which
equals the exercise price of the Right divided by 50% of the current market
price of such common stock at the date of the occurrence of the event. The
events summarized in this paragraph are referred to as "Section 13 Events." A
Section 11(a)(ii) Event and Section 13 Events are collectively referred to as
"Triggering Events."
 
     At any time after the occurrence of a Section 11(a)(ii) Event, subject to
certain conditions, the Board of Directors of the Company may exchange the
Rights (other than Rights owned by such Acquiring Person which have become
void), in whole or in part, at an exchange ratio of one share of Common Stock,
or one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock (or of a share of a class or
series of the Company's preferred stock having equivalent rights, preferences
and privileges), per Right (subject to adjustment).
 
     The Purchase Price payable, and the number of units of Preferred Stock or
other securities or property issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject
to adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in the event of a stock
dividend on, or a subdivision, combination or reclassification of, the Preferred
Stock, (ii) if holders of the Preferred Stock are granted certain rights or
warrants to subscribe for Preferred Stock or convertible securities at less than
the then-current market price of the Preferred Stock, or (iii) upon the
distribution to holders of the Preferred Stock of evidences of indebtedness or
assets (excluding regular periodic cash dividends paid out of earnings or
retained earnings) or of subscription rights or warrants (other than those
referred to above). The number of Rights associated with each share of Common
Stock is also subject to adjustment in the event of a stock split of the Common
Stock or a stock dividend on the Common Stock payable in Common Stock or
subdivisions, consolidations or combinations of the Common Stock occurring, in
any such case, prior to the Distribution Date.
 
     With certain exceptions, no adjustment in the Purchase Price will be
required until cumulative adjustments amount to at least 1% of the Purchase
Price. No fractional shares of Preferred Stock (other than fractions which are
integral multiples of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) will be
issued and, in lieu thereof, an adjustment in cash will be made based on the
market price of the Preferred Stock on the last trading date prior to the date
of exercise.
 
     Preferred Stock purchasable upon exercise of the Rights will not be
redeemable. Each share of Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive, when, as
and if declared by the Board of Directors, a minimum preferential quarterly
dividend payment of $100 per share or, if greater, an aggregate dividend of
1,000 times the dividend declared per share of Common Stock. In the event of
liquidation, the holders of the Preferred Stock will be entitled to a minimum
preferential liquidation payment of $1,000 per share and will be entitled to an
aggregate payment of 1,000 times the payment made per share of Common Stock.
Each share of Preferred Stock will have 1,000 votes, voting together with the
Common Stock. In the event of any merger, consolidation or other transaction in
which Common Stock is changed or exchanged, each share of Preferred Stock will
be entitled to receive 1,000 times the amount received per share of Common
Stock. These rights are protected by customary antidilution provisions. Because
of the nature of the Preferred Stock's dividend, liquidation and voting rights,
the value of one one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock purchasable upon
exercise of each Right should approximate the value of one share of Common
Stock.
 
     At any time prior to the earlier of (i) the Distribution Date, or (ii) the
Final Expiration Date, the Company may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in
part, at a price of $.001 per Right (the "Redemption Price"), payable in cash or
stock, provided, however, that if a majority of the Board of Directors of the
Company is comprised of persons elected at a meeting of stockholders who were
not nominated by the Board of Directors in office immediately prior to such
meeting, then the Rights may not be redeemed for a period of 120 days after such
election if such redemption is reasonably likely to have the purpose or effect
of allowing any person to become an Acquiring Person or otherwise facilitating
the occurrence of a Triggering Event or a transaction with an Acquiring Person.
Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors ordering redemption of the
Rights, the Rights will terminate and the only right of the holders of Rights
will be to receive the Redemption Price. The Rights may also be redeemable
following certain other circumstances specified in the Rights Agreement.
 
<PAGE>   61
 
     Until a Right is exercised, the holder thereof, as such, will have no
rights as a stockholder of the Company, including, without limitation, the right
to vote or to receive dividends. While the distribution of the Rights will not
be taxable to stockholders or to the Company, stockholders may, depending upon
the circumstances, recognize taxable income in the event that the Rights become
exercisable for Common Stock (or other consideration) of the Company or for
common stock of the acquiring company as set forth above.
 
     Subject to certain exceptions, any of the provisions of the Rights
Agreement may be amended by the Board of Directors of the Company prior to such
time as the Rights are no longer redeemable.
 
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>PRESS RELEASE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    Exhibit 99.1




                                                                  March 18, 1998


                ANALOG DEVICES ADOPTS NEW STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN


NORWOOD, MA - Analog Devices, Inc. (NYSE:ADI) announced today that its Board of
Directors has adopted a new Stockholder Rights Plan in which preferred stock
purchase rights will be distributed on or about March 27, 1998 as a dividend at
the rate of one Right for each share of the Company's Common Stock outstanding
as of the close of business on that date. The Rights Plan replaces the Company's
1988 Stockholder Rights Plan that expired on February 12, 1998.

"The new Rights Plan is designed to allow all Analog stockholders to realize the
long-term value of their investment in the Company and to protect stockholders
in the event of an unfair, coercive offer to acquire the Company," said Jerald
G. Fishman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Analog.

According to Mr. Fishman, the Board adopted the Rights Plan as a means of
deterring possible coercive or unfair takeover tactics and to prevent a
potential acquirer from gaining control of the Company without offering a fair
price to all of the Company's stockholders. "Coercive tactics can unfairly
pressure stockholders and squeeze them out of their investment without giving
them any real choice," said Mr. Fishman. He added that the Company was not aware
of any unsolicited offer or takeover attempt, and that "the Board's action was
taken to replace the Company's 1988 Rights Plan, whose ten-year term recently
expired." Mr. Fishman also noted that similar Rights Plans have been adopted by
approximately 2,000 public companies.

Each Right will entitle Analog stockholders to purchase one one-thousandth of a
share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock of the Company at
an exercise price of $180. The Rights will be exercisable if another party
acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of Analog's Common Stock, or upon
the commencement of a tender or exchange offer that, if consummated, would
result in another party acquiring 20% or more of Analog's Common Stock (the
"Acquiring Person").

In the event of such an acquisition or similar event as described in the Rights
Plan, each Right, except those owned by the Acquiring Person, will enable the
holder of the Right to purchase that number of shares of Analog Common Stock
which equals the exercise price of the Right divided by one-half of the market
price of such Common Stock.

In addition, if Analog is involved in a merger or other transaction with another
company in which it is not the surviving corporation, or it sells or transfers
50% or more of its assets or earning power to another company, each Right will
entitle its
<PAGE>   2
holder to purchase that number of shares of Common Stock of the acquiring
company which equals the exercise price of the Right divided by one-half of the
market price of such Common Stock.

The Company will be entitled to redeem the Rights at $0.001 per Right at any
time until the tenth business day following public announcement that a 15% stock
position has been acquired or the commencement of a tender or exchange offer
that, if consummated, would result in another party acquiring 20% or more of
Analog's Common Stock and in certain other circumstances. Unless the Rights are
redeemed or exchanged earlier, they will expire on March 17, 2008.

With fiscal 1997 sales of $1.24 billion, Analog Devices is a leading
manufacturer of precision high-performance integrated circuits used in analog
and digital signal processing applications. Headquartered in Norwood,
Massachusetts, the company employs approximately 7,800 people worldwide and has
manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland,
the Philippines and Taiwan.

                                      -end-

CONTACT: James O. Fishbeck, Director of Corporate Communications at Analog
Devices, (781) 461-3282, or james.fishbeck@analog.com



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
