-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 I80Lw0LfG9HhIRF+CLwxHVMqP/SX/VjhOwvA1upYoTCWBDMCU54yFJZpLEQZ9mOB
 sOU4owbGCCKNFf+MBnG/EQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000927016-97-000617.txt : 19970228
<SEC-HEADER>0000927016-97-000617.hdr.sgml : 19970228
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000927016-97-000617
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19961231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970227
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			EMC CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000790070
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES [3572]
		IRS NUMBER:				042680009
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-09853
		FILM NUMBER:		97546117

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		171 SOUTH STREET
		CITY:			HOPKINTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01748-9103
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5084351000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		171 SOUTH STREET
		CITY:			HOPKINTON
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			01748-9103
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                  ANNUAL REPORT UNDER SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED: DECEMBER 31, 1996      COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-9853
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
            MASSACHUSETTS                              04-2680009
    (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION                    (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
  OF ORGANIZATION OR INCORPORATION)               IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)

 
                               171 SOUTH STREET
                        HOPKINTON, MASSACHUSETTS 01748
         (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES, INCLUDING ZIP CODE)
 
                                (508) 435-1000
             (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 
     TITLE OF EACH CLASS:          NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH REGISTERED:
     -------------------           -----------------------------------------
 Common Stock, $.01 par value               New York Stock Exchange

 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     None
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                     X
              Yes ______                              No _______
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [_]
 
  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant was $8,974,421,370 as of January 31, 1997.
 
  The number of shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value, outstanding as of
January 31, 1997 was 245,752,403.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  The information required in response to Part III of Form 10-K is hereby
incorporated by reference to the specified portions of the registrant's Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on May 7, 1997.
<PAGE>
 
                          FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
   This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements as defined under
 the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could vary materially. Factors
 that could cause actual results to vary materially are described herein and
 in other documents. Readers should pay particular attention to the
 considerations described in the section of this report entitled
 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
 Operations--Factors that May Affect Future Results." Readers should also
 carefully review the risk factors described in the other documents the
 Company files from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
  EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries ("EMC" or the "Company") design,
manufacture, market and support a wide range of storage-related hardware,
software and service products for the multi-billion dollar market for
mainframe, open systems and network attached storage systems. Since the
introduction of its first Symmetrix Integrated Cached Disk Array ("ICDA") in
1991, EMC has rapidly become a leading supplier of intelligent enterprise
storage and retrieval technology for both mainframe and open systems
environments. These products are sold as storage solutions for customers
utilizing a variety of the world's most popular computer system platforms,
including, but not limited to, International Business Machines Corporation
("IBM") and IBM-compatible mainframes, Unisys Corporation ("Unisys"),
Compagnie des Machines Bull S.A. ("Bull"), Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"), NCR
Corporation ("NCR"), Sequent Computer Systems, Inc. ("Sequent") and other open
systems platforms. EMC's products provide solutions for a wide range of
customer storage requirements, from the highest performance mission critical
applications to extremely high capacity business support applications.
 
  The Company's objective is to continue to be an enterprise storage solutions
leader in the Information Technology ("IT") industry. EMC develops its
products by integrating technologically advanced, industry standard components
and devices with Company-designed proprietary hardware and software
technology. The Company differentiates its products by incorporating hardware
and software features that provide competitive advantages for EMC customers
through high performance, high availability and heterogeneous connectivity.
 
  In the late 1980's, open systems computing, frequently referred to as client
server computing, was emerging as a new, flexible and distributed model for
development of new business applications. This contrasted with mainframe
computing, characterized at that time by proprietary operating systems and
large scale, centralized high performance computing platforms. The flexibility
and distributed nature of open systems became the solution for customer
departments or divisions that required quick turn-around of application
changes to meet new market demands. Many customers considered open systems to
be the alternative to the mainframe approach they had been dependent upon for
years. A shift in focus toward development of new applications in the open
systems market began increasing the need for more robust storage solutions.
 
  Historically, the use of both mainframe and open systems as key business
application development platforms were looked at from a Central Processing
Unit ("CPU")-centric approach, where the computing platform was placed at the
center of a customer's Information Systems ("IS") architecture with all other
required elements placed on the periphery. As the new applications became more
important to companies' businesses, the volume of information increased
significantly, as did the importance to such companies of managing such
information to gain competitive advantage. EMC believes that companies are re-
evaluating the way they manage information and have determined that a new
information-centric model is required to satisfy the protection, management
and sharing of mission critical information across the enterprise.
 
  This information-centric computing model defines what EMC believes is a
significant growth opportunity, the Enterprise Storage market. An Enterprise
Storage system stores and retrieves data from all major computing platforms,
including mainframe and open systems environments. It acts as a shared central
repository for information, providing common management, protection and
information sharing capabilities. The product
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
attributes provided by Enterprise Storage are expected to meet the demands of
emerging enterprise application developments, such as Data Warehousing and
Data Mining, Internet/Intranets, Year 2000 Compliance and European Currency
Conversion. These developments are all considered to be major storage growth
drivers for the IT industry.
 
  Enterprise Storage encompasses delivering a full suite of integrated
products that combine EMC core competencies in the areas of hardware,
software, and services with complementary third party products from selected
partners and/or acquisitions. EMC believes it is highly qualified to meet its
customers' needs for consolidation and sharing of information across platforms
in an Enterprise Storage environment.
 
  The Company's principal hardware products are based on ICDA technology,
which combines high-speed semiconductor cache memory managed by advanced
caching algorithms, with industry standard disk drives. These products include
two families of Symmetrix high speed ICDA-based storage systems, the Symmetrix
5000 family (introduced in 1992) and the Symmetrix 3000 family (introduced in
June 1995), for the IBM and IBM-compatible mainframe, Unisys and Bull
mainframe, IBM AS/400 and open systems storage markets.
 
  The customers for the Company's products are located worldwide and represent
a cross section of industries and government agencies that range in size from
FORTUNE 1000 companies to small businesses, and national to local governments.
EMC products continue to be accepted widely by both existing customers and new
accounts, including the top telecommunications companies worldwide and the
largest banks in the United States. The Company has added more than 1,000 new
customers in each of the last two years.
 
  The Company markets its products worldwide through a network of direct sales
representatives, resellers, distributors and original equipment manufacturers
("OEMs"), including HP, NCR and Sequent.
 
  EMC, a Massachusetts corporation, was incorporated in 1979 and has its
corporate headquarters located at 171 South Street, Hopkinton, Massachusetts.
 
COMPANY STRATEGY
 
  The Company's strategy incorporates the following key elements: innovative
architectural design, proprietary software technology, multi-channel
distribution focus and alliances.
 
 Innovative Architectural Design
 
  EMC believes its growth is partially the result of its ability to deliver
advanced technologies to market quickly while maintaining a consistent
platform upon which its customers can expand capacity, performance,
connectivity and intelligent functionality. The Company's common hardware
architecture on which its principal products are based, called MOSAIC:2000, is
based upon a modular design and industry standard interfaces that allow new
technologies to be incorporated more rapidly than with traditional
architectures. Since 1991, MOSAIC:2000 has enabled Symmetrix high-performance
storage to connect to an increasing variety of computer platforms, and
assisted in extending the useful life of customers' storage and other
computer-related assets, such as the CPU and networks. This architectural
hardware design has enabled the Company to expand its offerings in existing
markets and has enabled the Company to enter new, strategic markets quickly
with proven storage products and services.
 
 Proprietary Software Technology
 
  With intelligent storage systems taking an increasingly central role in
information-centric computing environments, a major strategic asset of the
Company is the proprietary software utilized to provide primary and extended
functionality for the Company's storage products. These software products are
either EMC controller-based or host-based software. Controller-based software
resides within the EMC system, while host-based software resides within the
customer's CPU. This proprietary software provides significant flexibility,
enabling the Company to scale hardware platforms for many customer application
requirements.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
  The primary functionality provided by the controller-based core software is
advanced intelligence to the ICDA architecture; integrating industry standard
hardware components, such as high speed cache memory, disk drives and other
devices to enhance the performance, reliability, availability, connectivity
and functionality of the Company's storage systems.
 
  Extended software technology is delivered via EMC's Intelligent Storage
Architecture ("ISA") overlay to the MOSAIC:2000 hardware design. The ISA
architecture enables an integration of controller and host-based software
products that provide enterprise wide storage solutions in the areas of
information sharing, business continuity, and information management
applications. Certain Application Programming Interface ("API") modules have
also been designed to allow further integration of EMC's Symmetrix family with
selected independent software products, thus allowing customers to leverage
and extend their software investments.
 
  Controller-based software is offered in both the mainframe and open systems
storage markets. Examples of this software include: Symmetrix Remote Data
Facility ("SRDF"), providing customer solutions to significantly reduce or
eliminate the costs and business risk associated with planned and unplanned
outages; Symmetrix Data Migration Services ("SDMS"), which is a combined
software and services offering that enables customers to migrate mainframe
data non-disruptively from older technology disk devices to Symmetrix 5000
systems while applications remain on-line; Symmetrix Enterprise Storage
Platform ("Symmetrix ESP"), which the Company believes is the first step to
the ultimate sharing of information across platform boundaries, which enables
a single system from the Symmetrix 5000 family to simultaneously store both
mainframe and open systems data; and Symmetrix Multihost Transfer Facility
("SMTF") information sharing software, which enables high performance bulk
data transfer between mainframe and open systems platforms with minimal CPU
intervention and without using expensive and slower network resources.
 
  The Company's host-based software products address the increasing complexity
of enterprise information management. These products, the Symmetrix Manager
and SRDF Host Component software for the mainframe and the Open Symmetrix
Manager for open systems, offer a variety of monitoring and configuration
control options for the Enterprise Storage environment. The Company also
offers turnkey software solutions to address high-performance network attached
storage backup and recovery requirements via EMC Data Manager ("EDM"),
introduced in March 1996.
 
 Multi-Channel Distribution Focus
 
  The Company's strategy is to continue to use multiple channels of
distribution to expand its worldwide markets for Enterprise Storage solutions.
Specific targeted storage markets include: the IBM and IBM-compatible
mainframe storage market, the open systems market, and the network attached
storage market. In addition, the Company has adopted a multi-channel
distribution approach to sell its products in those large geographic markets
of the world which the Company believes have a demand for its products.
 
 Alliances
 
  The Company has entered into and intends to continue to enter into alliances
with leading relational database companies, including, Oracle Corporation,
Informix Software, Inc. and Sybase, Inc., and major independent software
vendors in the applications arena. EMC's strategy is to work with leading
software companies to provide added value to its customers, enhancing
enterprise implementations and business effectiveness.
 
ENTERPRISE STORAGE MARKET
 
  The Company intends to continue to focus on the three core sectors of the
Enterprise Storage market: mainframe, open systems and network-attached
storage.
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
 Mainframe Market
 
  The mainframe storage market is estimated to be a multi-billion dollar
market, which the Company has penetrated with its ICDA-based products.
 
  In 1991, EMC delivered the first Symmetrix series for the IBM and IBM-
compatible mainframe storage market. Mainframes play an important role as
enterprise information servers and are a key element of enterprise computing
due to the following factors: recent emergence of information-centric
computing models; the need for customers to leverage investments in legacy
applications, processes and personnel; and new developments in lower-cost
hardware technology. The Company believes this will increase the need for
enterprise storage solutions.
 
  Symmetrix was the first commercially available intelligent disk storage
system for this marketplace that integrated highly sophisticated controller
software with large amounts of cache memory and arrays of industry standard
5.25", and more recently, 3.5" disk drives. This combination continues to
provide customers with unique advantages and capabilities including: high
performance disk storage; operating system independence for easy integration
into existing computer environments; built-in redundancy and availability
features allowing for higher data availability and continuous operations; and
small footprint and low environmental requirements for low cost of ownership.
 
  Since the first Symmetrix model, with a maximum capacity of 24 gigabytes
("GB"), the Company has continued to enhance and increase the capabilities of
the Symmetrix family. The Company's current mainframe product offering is the
Symmetrix 5000 family which was expanded in January 1997. The Symmetrix 5000
family members share a common architecture and components, with the main
differentiator being capacity and host connectivity capabilities. The
Symmetrix 5000 family offers mainframe storage capacity from approximately 34
GB up to approximately 3 terabytes ("TB"). The Company believes that the
Symmetrix 5000 family offers the highest performance and availability storage
in the mainframe market.
 
  A significant factor in Symmetrix market success has been the unique
controller-based software that all Symmetrix 5000 family members support.
These include SRDF and SDMS as business continuance solutions, Symmetrix ESP
for simultaneous support of mainframe and open systems computers, SMTF for
high performance file transfer between mainframe and open systems computers,
and application-specific software to satisfy unique computing needs of various
industries such as transportation and finance.
 
  Additionally, EMC offers mainframe host-based software products, including
Symmetrix Manager and SRDF Host Component, that improve the management of
specific EMC systems and products.
 
  In March 1996, EMC entered a new segment of the mainframe market with a
unique solution for high capacity applications that require disk-based storage
and better application response time than can be provided by traditional off-
line storage offerings. Extended-Online Storage ("EOS") has defined a new tier
in the storage hierarchy, between traditional online disk storage and offline
storage, such as tape or optical disk. EOS is targeted at specific business
support applications that previously had no appropriate online storage
platform. EOS provides over one TB of maximum capacity.
 
  Revenues to the mainframe market represented approximately 55%, 74%, and
85%, respectively, of EMC's 1996, 1995 and 1994 revenues.
 
 Open Systems Market
 
  The multi-billion dollar open systems market continues to demonstrate rapid
growth in storage requirements primarily driven by continued deployment of new
client/server applications. This market is characterized by a broad mix of
computing platforms that offer customers the ability to quickly develop new
applications required for today's highly competitive business environment.
These computing platforms are offered by the largest computer manufacturers
worldwide, including IBM, HP, NCR and Sequent. In June of 1995, EMC
capitalized
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
on its MOSAIC:2000 architecture and quickly brought products to the open
systems market with the introduction of the Symmetrix 3000 family. The
Symmetrix 3000 family delivered the performance, capacity, availability and
features of mainframe-class storage to large-scale open database and other
applications such as Data Warehousing and Internet/Intranets. Through its
platform-independent technology, the Symmetrix 3000 family provides users of
large relational databases and demanding client/server applications with fast,
highly intelligent storage for multiple, heterogeneous UNIX, Windows NT,
AS/400 and other open systems platforms.
 
  The Symmetrix 3000 family was expanded in January 1997 and supports storage
capacity from approximately 34 GB to approximately 3 TB. In August 1996, the
Company also made available EOS to satisfy the high-capacity requirements for
new and emerging business support applications being developed on open systems
platforms.
 
  The Symmetrix 3000 family also supports the SRDF software for mission
critical information availability requirements, Symmetrix ESP for simultaneous
support of mainframe and open systems computers and SMTF for high performance
file transfer between mainframe and open systems computers. Additionally, EMC
offers open systems host-based software products that improve the management
of specific EMC systems and products, including Open Symmetrix Manager and the
SRDF Control Option. In March 1996, the Company introduced EDM, an integrated
network storage backup solution with intelligent proprietary software
providing resource management to integrated disk and automated tape library
hardware components. EDM offers high-performance, integrated network backup
and recovery.
 
  EMC is currently engaging in research and development of software technology
for the combined mainframe and open systems market in the areas of intelligent
extracting and loading of customer databases. The Company believes that its
investment in core technologies related to logical data management will
accelerate adoption of the Company's Enterprise Storage model and facilitate
consolidation and sharing of customer information.
 
  By late 1995, the new Symmetrix 3000 systems were quickly penetrating this
highly competitive open systems market. In November 1995, EMC announced
alliances with both HP and NCR (formerly AT&T Global Information Solutions),
under which these two leading UNIX-based server suppliers now market Symmetrix
3000 systems worldwide with their high-end servers.
 
  In 1996, EMC expanded its existing reseller and OEM relationships with HP
and Bull. In January 1997, EMC signed an agreement with Sequent to market and
resell the Symmetrix 3000 family of products worldwide into its market. See
"Reseller and OEM Channels."
 
  Revenues to the open systems market represented approximately 33% and 11% of
EMC's revenues in 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
 Network Attached Storage Market
 
  The network attached storage market is estimated to have high potential for
storage requirements, which EMC's products have only recently begun to
penetrate. The proliferation of local and wide-area networks has resulted in
customers' reliance on networks for sharing large computer files (including
image and video). This practice has resulted in significant network
bottlenecks impacting companies' ability to effectively run business
applications and the inefficient use of expensive network resources.
 
  In 1996, EMC announced availability of Symmetrix Network File Storage
("SNFS") and Symmetrix Network Media Server ("SNMS"), new high performance
network attached storage solutions. This combination of EMC developed
proprietary software, network director hardware components and the performance
and availability attributes of Symmetrix focus on breaking the information
bottlenecks that plague conventional CPU-based, general purpose file servers
and on meeting the need for faster access to large quantities of information
directly across the network.
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
  EMC is currently engaging in research and development of products for the
network attached storage market in the areas of video storage and retrieval,
centralized backup repository and other network data access services, such as
the Internet.
 
  In December 1995, the Company completed the acquisition of McDATA
Corporation ("McDATA"). McDATA designs, manufactures, markets and supports
high performance information switching products, delivering innovative
networking solutions for large-scale computing applications, including local,
metropolitan and wide-area connectivity. McDATA's primary product is the ESCON
Director, a high-speed fiber-optic-based network switch designed to connect
computers and peripherals within data center environments. The ESCON Director
is marketed by IBM under an exclusive OEM agreement with McDATA. The Company
continues to evaluate joint technology ventures with McDATA to help position
EMC at the center of the Enterprise Storage market, thereby permitting EMC to
play an even more critical role in helping EMC's customers establish
information-centric computing strategies.
 
MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS
 
  EMC markets its products through multiple distribution channels, including
its direct sales force, selected distributors and OEMs. The Company has a
direct sales presence throughout North America, Europe, South Africa and the
Asia Pacific region and uses distributors as its primary distribution channel
in other areas of the world. Over the past two years, the Company has expanded
its sales and marketing organizations significantly in all major geographies
of the world. In the second half of 1996, EMC began selling direct in Israel
and established a subsidiary in Brazil, its first direct sales presence in
Latin America.
 
  During 1996, the Company derived 59% of its product revenue from shipments
into North and South America, 32% from shipments into Europe, the Middle East
and Africa, and 9% from shipments into the Asia Pacific region. The Company
has dedicated personnel to support the needs of its customers in the mainframe
and open systems markets and also of its distributors and OEM customers, both
domestically and internationally.
 
RESELLER AND OEM CHANNELS
 
  The Company believes that the MOSAIC:2000 architectural philosophy, and the
flexibility it provides, make its products well suited for sale by resellers
and OEMs in partnership with the Company. The Company believes that with its
new open systems capabilities introduced in 1995 and 1996, revenues from the
reseller and OEM market will increase. In response to the anticipated growth
in the open systems market, the Company increased its sales channel
capabilities by signing agreements with a number of Value Added Resellers
("VARs"), Systems Integrators ("SIs") and distributors during 1996. The
Company's products are maintained and serviced by the Company, the reseller,
distributor or OEM, or authorized third party providers.
 
  Since January 1992, EMC has had an agreement with Unisys for the sale of
Unisys-compatible Symmetrix systems. Unisys has worldwide marketing rights to
the Symmetrix and certain other products for use with Unisys systems, subject
to certain terms and conditions.
 
  In February 1993, the Company first entered into an OEM agreement with Bull,
granting Bull exclusive worldwide marketing rights, with the exception of
Japan, to certain Symmetrix products for use with Bull mainframe computers as
Bull's solution for all high speed disk requirements. In June 1995, certain
systems in the Symmetrix 5000 family were added to this agreement. In March
1996, the Company extended this agreement to add the Symmetrix ESP for Bull's
new generation of Sagister UNIX multiframe servers. In April 1996, an
agreement was entered into with Bull to sell EMC's Symmetrix 3000 family of
open systems products for connection to Bull's Escala and DPR/20 computers.
 
  On October 31, 1995, the Company entered into a reseller agreement with HP
under which HP markets and resells the Symmetrix 3000 family of systems
worldwide for connection to HP's 9000 series computers. The agreement
currently extends to June 30, 1997. In August 1996, EMC expanded its reseller
agreement with HP to
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
 
enable HP to market and sell EMC's Symmetrix 3000 family of open systems
products worldwide for connection to HP's 3000 series computers.
 
  On November 2, 1995, the Company entered into an OEM agreement with NCR
under which NCR markets and sells the Symmetrix 3000 family of systems under
an NCR label worldwide for connection to NCR's WorldMark brand of enterprise
server systems. The agreement currently extends to November 2, 1998.
 
  On January 29, 1997, the Company entered into a reseller agreement with
Sequent under which Sequent will market and resell the Symmetrix 3000 family
of systems worldwide for connection to Sequent's Symmetry series and NUMA-Q
series computers. The agreement currently extends to January 29, 1999.
 
  The Company continues to maintain and grow long-standing relationships with
key resellers and OEMs on a worldwide basis. In addition, the Company will
continue to evaluate additional resellers and OEMs to satisfy business
expansion in targeted worldwide markets.
 
  In 1996, the Company derived 19% of its product revenues from reseller and
OEM channels.
 
OPERATIONS
 
  EMC's products utilize the Company's engineering designs, with industry
standard and semi-custom components and subsystems. EMC's products are
assembled and tested primarily at the Company's facilities in Massachusetts
and Cork, Ireland. Product components manufactured by subcontractors in the
U.S. and Europe are assembled in accordance with production standards and
quality controls established by EMC. The Company believes its present level of
manufacturing capacity, along with its current plans for expansion, will be
sufficient to accommodate its requirements.
 
  The Company has implemented a Total Quality Management philosophy to ensure
the quality of its designs, manufacturing process and suppliers. The Company's
operations in Massachusetts currently hold an ISO 9001 Certificate of
Registration from National Quality Assurance, Ltd. This internationally
recognized endorsement of ongoing quality management represents the highest
level of certification available. The Company's Irish manufacturing operation
holds ISO 9002 registration. The Company's principal manufacturing operation
in Hopkinton, Massachusetts has also been awarded Class A MRP II status by an
independent evaluation organization.
 
COMPETITION
 
  In the mainframe storage market, EMC competes primarily with IBM, and to a
lesser extent, Hitachi Data Systems and Amdahl Corporation. The Company
believes that it has a number of competitive advantages over these companies,
especially in the areas of product performance, value-added software
capabilities, time to market enhancements and cost of ownership.
 
  In the open systems market, the Company's primary competition is provided by
systems vendors, including IBM, Digital Equipment Corporation ("DEC") and Sun
Microsystems Corporation ("Sun"). In the Company's opinion, the major
competitive advantage of the open systems vendors is their overall market
presence and ability to provide integrated CPU, storage and software packages.
The Company believes that its major independent storage competitors in the
open systems market are Data General Corporation and Symbios Logic, Inc. EMC
believes that it has advantages over its open systems competitors in
performance, capacity, availability, connectivity and software features.
 
BACKLOG
 
  The Company manufactures its products on the basis of its forecast of near-
term demand and maintains inventory in advance of receipt of firm orders from
customers. Orders are generally shipped by the Company shortly after receipt
of the order. Customers may reschedule orders with little or no penalty. For
these reasons,
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
 
the Company's backlog at any particular time is not meaningful, because it is
not necessarily indicative of future sales levels.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of January 31, 1997, EMC had approximately 4,800 employees worldwide
including temporary employees. None of the Company's domestic employees is
represented by a labor union, and the Company has never suffered an
interruption of business as a result of a labor dispute. The Company considers
its relations with its employees to be good.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
  The Company's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous laws and
regulations designed to protect the environment, particularly from wastes
generated as a result of assembling certain EMC products. The cost of
compliance with such regulations has not to date involved a significant
expense or had a material effect on the capital expenditures, earnings or
competitive position of the Company.
 
PATENTS
 
  EMC has been granted and/or owns by assignment nearly 100 United States
patents. The Company also has over 150 patent applications pending in the U.S.
relating to its products for the mainframe, midrange, open systems and
network-attached storage markets.
 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT FOREIGN AND DOMESTIC OPERATIONS AND EXPORT SALES
 
  The Company is active in primarily one business segment: designing,
manufacturing and marketing high performance storage products. Information by
geographic area is presented below with exports shown in their area of origin.
Sales and marketing operations outside the U.S. are conducted through sales
subsidiaries and branches located principally in Europe and the Asia Pacific
region. In 1996, the U.S. market amounted to greater than 95% of the Company's
sales, income and identifiable assets in the North/South America segment.
 
  Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
which are designed to be representative of unaffiliated party transactions.
(Amounts are in thousands.)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        EUROPE,
                          NORTH/SOUTH MIDDLE EAST,   ASIA                 CONSOLIDATED
                            AMERICA      AFRICA    PACIFIC   ELIMINATIONS    TOTAL
                          ----------- ------------ --------  ------------ ------------
<S>                       <C>         <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>
1996
Sales...................  $1,441,935    $687,350   $144,367   $     --     $2,273,652
Transfers between
 areas..................      72,813     159,605        --     (232,418)          --
                          ----------    --------   --------   ---------    ----------
  Total Sales...........   1,514,748     846,955    144,367    (232,418)    2,273,652
Income (loss) from
 operations.............     334,547     167,964     (3,851)     (2,119)      496,541
Identifiable assets at
 year end...............   1,749,221     703,929    104,210    (263,814)    2,293,546
1995
Sales...................  $1,230,223    $567,303   $123,749   $     --     $1,921,275
Transfers between
 areas..................     134,073     141,003         10    (275,086)          --
                          ----------    --------   --------   ---------    ----------
  Total sales...........   1,364,296     708,306    123,759    (275,086)    1,921,275
Income from operations..     264,168     176,293      1,805      (6,487)      435,779
Identifiable assets at
 year end...............   1,669,928     144,081     77,923    (146,203)    1,745,729
1994
Sales...................  $  871,048    $449,467   $ 56,977   $     --     $1,377,492
Transfers between
 areas..................     123,587      61,577        110    (185,274)          --
                          ----------    --------   --------   ---------    ----------
  Total sales...........     994,635     511,044     57,087    (185,274)    1,377,492
Income (loss) from
 operations.............     155,544     196,658        (97)     (1,573)      350,532
Identifiable assets at
 year end...............   1,230,883     171,233     36,437    (121,053)    1,317,500
</TABLE>
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's operations are conducted at several locations in the United
States and abroad. The following table provides certain information on the
Company's principal offices and manufacturing facilities:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
   LOCATION         USE                      APPROX. SQ. FT. PROPERTY INTEREST
   --------         ---                      --------------- -----------------
   <S>              <C>                      <C>             <C>
   171 South St.    Marketing, Research and      285,000           owned
   Hopkinton, MA    Development,
                    Manufacturing
   42 South St.     Customer Demonstration        63,000           owned
   Hopkinton, MA    Center, Administration
   35 Parkwood      Corporate &                  160,000          leased
   Drive            Administration
   Hopkinton, MA
   5-9 Technology   Customer Service, OEM        265,000          leased
   Dr.              Sales, Quality, Research
   Milford, MA      and Development,
                    Manufacturing
   45 South Street  Manufacturing                 36,000          leased
   Hopkinton, MA
   65 South Street  Research and Development      26,000          leased
   Hopkinton, MA
   8-12 Avenue E    Manufacturing                 60,000          leased
   Hopkinton, MA
   80 South St.     Manufacturing                156,000           owned
   Hopkinton, MA
   Cork, Ireland    Manufacturing                180,000           owned
   McDATA           Research and                  90,000          leased
   Corporation      Development,
                    Manufacturing
</TABLE>
 
  The Company is currently expanding its facility in Ireland by 20,000 square
feet for administrative use. The Company also leases space for its sales and
service offices and certain research and development facilities worldwide, and
owns land in the Hopkinton, Massachusetts area for possible expansion
purposes.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The Company is a party to litigation which it considers routine and
incidental to its business. Management does not expect the results of any of
these actions to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or
financial condition.
 
  On September 16, 1996, the Company was served with civil investigative
demands by the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice
in connection with the Department's investigation into the agreement dated
June 7, 1996 between IBM and Storage Technology Corporation (the "IBM/STK
Agreement"). The Justice Department is gathering evidence to determine whether
the IBM/STK Agreement has been, is, or may be in violation of the federal
Sherman Antitrust Act.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  No matter was submitted to a vote of the Company's stockholders during the
fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.
 
                                      10
<PAGE>
 
                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The executive officers of the Company are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
NAME                        AGE POSITION
- ----                        --- --------
<S>                         <C> <C>
Richard J. Egan............  60 Chairman of the Board and Director
Michael C. Ruettgers.......  54 President, Chief Executive Officer and Director
L. Daniel Butler...........  58 Senior Vice President, Customer Service
Raymond Fortune............  57 Senior Vice President, International Sales
Michael A. Klayko..........  42 Senior Vice President, North American
                                Sales/Services
Richard P. Lehane..........  49 Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing
Colin G. Patteson..........  47 Senior Vice President, Chief Administrative
                                Officer and Treasurer
James B. Rothnie...........  48 Senior Vice President, Corporate Marketing
Paul T. Dacier.............  39 Vice President and General Counsel
William J. Teuber, Jr......  45 Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
</TABLE>
 
  Richard J. Egan is a founder of the Company and has served as a Director
since the Company's inception in 1979. He was elected Chairman of the Board of
the Company in January 1988. Prior to January 1988, he was also President of
EMC. From 1979 to January 1992, he was Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
He is also a director of Cognition Corporation, a CAD/CAM software supplier.
 
  Michael C. Ruettgers served as Executive Vice President, Operations of EMC
from July 1988 to October 1989, when he became President. From October 1989 to
January 1992, Mr. Ruettgers served as Chief Operating Officer of EMC. In
January 1992, he became Chief Executive Officer and in May 1992, he was
elected a Director of the Company. Before joining EMC, he was Chief Operating
Officer at Technical Financial Services, Incorporated, a high technology
consulting company, from February 1987 to July 1988. He is also a director of
Cross Comm, Inc., a manufacturer of computer network products, and
Commonwealth Energy System, a public utility company.
 
  L. Daniel Butler joined EMC in August 1990 as Vice President of Customer
Service and became Senior Vice President of Customer Service in February 1993.
Prior to joining EMC, Mr. Butler was the founder and President of DMX, Inc.,
an electronic board assembling company, from October 1989 to August 1990. From
October 1987 to September 1989, he was Director of Logistics Planning at Data
General Corporation, a computer manufacturer.
 
  Raymond Fortune joined EMC in July 1994 as Senior Vice President,
International Sales. From November 1989 to March 1991, Mr. Fortune was
Executive Vice President of Commercial Products, and from May 1993 to June
1994 he was Chief Operating Officer, at Kendall Square Research Corporation, a
computer manufacturer. From May 1991 to April 1993, Mr. Fortune was Chief
Executive Officer at Ultra Network Technologies, Incorporated, a high speed
networking products manufacturer.
 
  Michael A. Klayko joined EMC in March 1996 as Senior Vice President, North
American Sales and became Senior Vice President, North American Sales/Services
in January 1997. From August 1992 to February 1996, Mr. Klayko was Worldwide
Marketing Manager, Computer Systems Organization at Hewlett-Packard Company, a
computer manufacturer. From 1979 to 1992, Mr. Klayko held various positions in
marketing and sales at IBM Corporation, a computer manufacturer.
 
  Richard P. Lehane joined EMC in February 1988 as General Manager of EMC's
manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland and became Senior Vice President,
Worldwide Manufacturing of EMC in November 1996. Prior
 
                                      11
<PAGE>
 
to joining EMC, Mr. Lehane held several senior level management positions in
manufacturing at Wang Laboratories, Inc., a computer manufacturer.
 
  Colin G. Patteson served as European Controller of EMC from January 1989 to
March 1991 and as Corporate Controller from March 1991 to April 1995. From
April 1995 to February 1997, Mr. Patteson was Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Treasurer of EMC, when he became Senior Vice President, Chief
Administrative Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Patteson has been a Vice President
of EMC since February 1993.
 
  James B. Rothnie joined EMC in October 1995 as Senior Vice President,
Corporate Marketing. Previously, he was Vice President of Software Development
at Data General Corporation, a computer manufacturer, from October 1994 to
October 1995. From 1987 to 1994, Mr. Rothnie served in several executive
capacities at Kendall Square Research Corporation, a computer manufacturer,
most recently as Executive Vice President.
 
  Paul T. Dacier joined EMC in March 1990 as General Counsel and became Vice
President and General Counsel in February 1993. Prior to joining EMC he was
Senior Counsel, Corporate Operations at Apollo Computer Inc., a computer
manufacturer, from January 1987 to January 1990.
 
  William J. Teuber, Jr. joined EMC in August 1995 as Vice President and
Controller and became Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in February
1997. From 1988 to August 1995, Mr. Teuber was a partner at Coopers & Lybrand
L.L.P., an accounting firm.
 
                               ----------------
 
  Richard J. Egan, Chairman of the Board and a Director, is the husband of
Maureen E. Egan, a Director of the Company. He also is the brother-in-law of
W. Paul Fitzgerald, a Director of the Company. W. Paul Fitzgerald is the
brother of Maureen E. Egan. John R. Egan, a Director of the Company, is the
son of Richard J. and Maureen E. Egan.
 
                               ----------------
 
  The President and Treasurer are elected annually to serve until the first
meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of
stockholders and until their successors are elected and qualified. The other
executive officers are appointed to serve in such positions and serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Directors.
 
                               ----------------
 
  EMC/2/, EMC, Symmetrix, ICDA, MOSAIC: 2000, SRDF, SDMS, EDM and SMTP are
trademarks of EMC Corporation. WorldMark is a trademark of NCR Corporation.
IBM and ESCON are trademarks of IBM Corporation. Escala is a trademark of
Bull. Symmetry and NUMA-Q are trademarks of Sequent.
 
                                      12
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS
 
  EMC's common stock $0.01 par value (the "Common Stock") began trading on the
over-the-counter market on April 4, 1986 under the NASDAQ symbol EMCS. On
March 22, 1988, the Company's stock began trading on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol EMC.
 
  The following stock splits were effected in the form of stock dividends in
the following amounts and at the following dates: a three-for-two stock split
effective November 24, 1992, for stockholders of record on November 9, 1992, a
two-for-one stock split effective June 8, 1993, for stockholders of record on
May 24, 1993, and a two-for-one stock split effective December 10, 1993, for
stockholders of record on November 26, 1993.
 
  The following table sets forth the range of high and low prices on the New
York Stock Exchange for the past two years during the fiscal periods shown.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        FISCAL 1996                                                 HIGH   LOW
        -----------                                                ------ ------
        <S>                                                        <C>    <C>
        First Quarter............................................. $22.00 $15.50
        Second Quarter............................................  23.13  18.00
        Third Quarter.............................................  23.13  17.00
        Fourth Quarter............................................  34.63  22.00
<CAPTION>
        FISCAL 1995                                                 HIGH   LOW
        -----------                                                ------ ------
        <S>                                                        <C>    <C>
        First Quarter............................................. $23.25 $14.75
        Second Quarter............................................  25.88  16.63
        Third Quarter.............................................  27.38  17.75
        Fourth Quarter............................................  19.13  13.13
</TABLE>
 
  As of January 31, 1997, there were approximately 4,480 holders of record of
the Company's Common Stock.
 
  The Company has never paid cash dividends on its Common Stock. While subject
to periodic review, the current policy of its Board of Directors is to retain
all earnings primarily to provide funds for the continued growth of the
Company.
 
                                      13
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                FIVE YEAR SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
                   (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                         ------------------------------------------------------------
                         DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30, DECEMBER 31, JANUARY 1, JANUARY 2,
                             1996         1995         1994        1994       1993
                         ------------ ------------ ------------ ---------- ----------
<S>                      <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>        <C>
SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS:
Revenues................  $2,273,652   $1,921,275   $1,377,492   $782,621   $385,706
Operating income........     496,541      435,779      350,532    180,428     48,575
Net income..............     386,229      326,845      250,668    127,122     29,508
Net income per weighted
 average common share
 (fully diluted)(1).....  $     1.56   $     1.34   $     1.10   $   0.60   $   0.16
Weighted average common
 shares
 (fully diluted)(1).....     251,431      248,296      234,255    217,225    190,548
BALANCE SHEET DATA:
Working capital.........  $1,336,634   $  959,595   $  600,341   $516,876   $149,335
Total assets............   2,293,546    1,745,729    1,317,500    829,646    338,780
Long-term
 obligations(2).........     191,234      245,845      286,106    274,029     76,093
Stockholders' equity....  $1,636,789   $1,140,301   $  727,641   $419,094   $168,266
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) In addition to common stock equivalents, fully diluted earnings per share
    for 1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993 reflect the dilutive effects of the
    Company's 4 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2001 (the "4 1/4%
    Notes"). Fully diluted earnings per share for 1995 (through conversion
    date), 1994, 1993 and 1992 reflect the dilutive effects of the Company's 6
    1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2002 (the "Debentures").
(2) Excludes current portion of long-term debt. Approximately $143 million of
    the long-term obligations at December 31, 1996 were converted to equity on
    January 2, 1997. See Note J to Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements in the Company's filing on Form 10-K for the year ended
    December 31, 1996.
 
                                      14
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
        RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations should be read in conjunction with "Factors that May Affect
Future Results" beginning on page 18.
 
  The following table presents certain consolidated statement of operations
information stated as a percentage of total revenues.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  FISCAL YEAR ENDED
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30, DECEMBER 31,
                                            1996         1995         1994
                                        ------------ ------------ ------------
   <S>                                  <C>          <C>          <C>
   REVENUES
   Mainframe...........................     54.9%        74.3%        85.4%
   Open Systems........................     33.3         10.6          1.8
   McDATA(1)...........................      8.0          8.3          --
   Other...............................      1.4          4.6         10.3
                                           -----        -----        -----
   Net sales...........................     97.6         97.8         97.5
   Service and rental income...........      2.4          2.2          2.5
                                           -----        -----        -----
   TOTAL REVENUE.......................    100.0        100.0        100.0
   COST AND EXPENSES
   Cost of sales and service...........     54.9         52.2         47.9
   Research and development............      7.1          8.5          8.6
   Selling, general and
    administrative.....................     16.2         16.6         18.1
                                           -----        -----        -----
   OPERATING INCOME....................     21.8         22.7         25.4
   Investment income and interest
    expense, net.......................      1.0          0.6          0.5
   Other income/(expense), net.........      --           0.2         (0.1)
                                           -----        -----        -----
   Income before income taxes..........     22.8         23.5         25.8
   Provision for income taxes..........      5.8          6.5          7.6
                                           -----        -----        -----
   NET INCOME..........................     17.0%        17.0%        18.2%
                                           =====        =====        =====
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) The Company acquired McDATA in December 1995. Financial statements for
    periods prior to 1995 were not restated due to immateriality.
 
REVENUES
 
  Total revenues for 1996 were $2,273,652,000 compared to $1,921,275,000 for
1995, an increase of $352,377,000 or 18%. The increase in revenues was due
primarily to the continued strong demand for the Company's series of ICDA
based products, particularly the open systems products which include the
Symmetrix 3000 series of products. Total revenues for 1995 compare to
$1,377,492,000 for 1994, an increase of $543,783,000 or 39%. Software revenues
are included in the product revenues for the respective mainframe and open
systems markets.
 
  Revenues from products sold directly and through OEMs into the mainframe
storage market were $1,248,138,000 in 1996, $1,428,379,000 in 1995 and
$1,177,014,000 in 1994; a decrease of $180,241,000 or 13% from 1995 to 1996,
and an increase of $251,365,000 or 21% from 1994 to 1995. The decrease in
mainframe revenues in 1996 reflects price erosion for storage-related products
in this market partially offset by increased unit sales. The Company expects
further declines in the mainframe revenue levels and revenue as a percentage
of total revenues in 1997.
 
  Revenues from products sold into the open systems storage market, which
include the Symmetrix products operating in an open systems environment and
other products, were $757,662,000 in 1996, $200,981,000 in 1995
 
                                      15
<PAGE>
 
and $24,323,000 in 1994. Revenues in this market in 1996 increased to
approximately 3.8 times 1995 revenues. The open systems market represented 33%
of the Company's total revenue in 1996, compared to 11% in 1995. The Company
expects further growth in open systems revenue levels and revenue as a
percentage of total revenues in this market throughout 1997.
 
  Revenues from products sold by McDATA, which include the ESCON Director
series of products, were $180,540,000 in 1996 and $160,205,000 in 1995, an
increase of $20,335,000 or 13%.
 
  Revenues from all other products, which include the midrange series of
products, were $31,952,000 in 1996, $88,650,000 in 1995 and $141,728,000 in
1994; a decrease of $56,698,000 or 64% from 1995 to 1996, and a decrease of
$53,078,000 or 37% from 1994 to 1995. These decreases are primarily
attributable to the declines in midrange series revenues.
 
  Revenues from service and rental income were $55,360,000 in 1996,
$43,060,000 in 1995 and $34,427,000 in 1994; an increase of $12,300,000 or 29%
from 1995 to 1996, and an increase of $8,633,000 or 25% from 1994 to 1995.
 
  In October 1995, the Company entered into a reseller agreement with HP under
which HP markets and resells the Symmetrix 3000 series of systems worldwide
for connection to HP's 9000 series computers. This agreement was expanded to
enable HP to also market and resell this family of systems for connection to
HP's 3000 series of computers. The current agreement extends to June 30, 1997.
Revenues for 1996 under this agreement were $287,352,000 or 12.6% of total
revenues. Revenues for 1995 were not significant.
 
  Revenues on sales into the markets of North and South America were
$1,346,222,000 in 1996 compared to $1,148,237,000 in 1995, an increase of
$197,985,000 or 17%. This increase was primarily due to growth in sales of the
Company's products in the open systems storage market. Total revenues for 1995
compare to $865,687,000 in 1994, an increase of $282,550,000 or 33%. The U.S.
market amounted to greater than 95% of the Company's revenues in the North and
South America segment.
 
  International revenues were $942,781,000 or 41% of total revenues in 1996
compared to $773,038,000 or 40% of total revenues in 1995. The Company expects
further increases in international sales as a percentage of total revenues
throughout 1997.
 
  Revenues on sales into the markets of Europe, Africa and the Middle East
were $720,792,000 in 1996 compared to $631,378,000 in 1995, an increase of
$89,414,000 or 14%. This increase was primarily due to growth in sales of the
Symmetrix series of products in the open systems storage market. During 1996
the Company opened a sales office in Israel. During 1995, the Company opened
sales offices in South Africa, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland. Total
revenues for 1995 compare to $439,524,000 in 1994, an increase of $191,854,000
or 44%.
 
  Revenues on sales into the markets in the Asia Pacific region were
$206,638,000 in 1996 compared to $141,660,000 in 1995, an increase of
$64,978,000 or 46%. This increase is primarily due to growth in sales of the
Symmetrix series of products in the mainframe storage market. During 1995, the
Company opened sales offices in Korea and Singapore. Total revenues for 1995
compare to $72,281,000 in 1994, an increase of $69,379,000 or 96%.
 
GROSS MARGINS
 
  Gross margins decreased to 45.1% in 1996, compared to 47.8% in 1995 and
52.1% in 1994. These decreases are primarily attributable to the impact of
price declines in the mainframe and open systems storage markets being greater
than the impact of cost declines in raw material components. During the second
half of 1996, the rate of price declines moderated which, together with total
revenue growth, increased software revenues and revenues from new Symmetrix
products, resulted in an increased gross margin percentage for that period as
 
                                      16
<PAGE>
 
compared to the first half of 1996. Software revenues were approximately
$76,438,000 in 1996. Software revenues were not significant in 1995. In 1995,
cost of goods sold included one-time charges of approximately $31,000,000, net
of tax, relating to end-of-life products and other inventory. The Company
currently believes that price declines will continue.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  Research and development ("R&D") expenses were $161,088,000, $162,611,000
and $117,922,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. As a percentage of
revenues, R&D expenses were 7.1%, 8.5% and 8.6% in 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The decrease in R&D spending levels in 1996 over 1995 reflects
the consolidation of domestic development efforts and the capitalization of
software development costs primarily related to specific software products.
The decrease was partially offset by the cost of additional technical staff,
especially to support development for products in the open systems storage
market, and depreciation expenses associated with capital equipment acquired
to facilitate development. The Company expects to continue to spend
substantial amounts for R&D in 1997.
 
SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
 
  Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $367,073,000,
$320,009,000 and $249,004,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. As a
percentage of revenues, SG&A expenses were 16.2%, 16.6% and 18.1% in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively. The dollar increase in 1996 over 1995 is due
primarily to costs associated with additional sales and support personnel and
their related overhead costs, both domestically and internationally, in
connection with the Company's increased revenue levels and the Company's
initiative to capture market share for its open systems storage products. The
Company has expanded the international direct sales force, particularly in the
Asia Pacific region, as well as OEM, alliance and partnership programs with
applications, systems and database vendors. Expenses in 1995 include
approximately $8,000,000 of costs related to the acquisition of McDATA. SG&A
expenses are expected to increase in dollar terms during 1997.
 
INVESTMENT INCOME AND INTEREST EXPENSE
 
  Investment income increased to $34,476,000 in 1996 from $23,620,000 in 1995
and $21,619,000 in 1994. Interest income was earned primarily from investments
in cash equivalents and investments. Investment income increased in 1996 over
1995 primarily due to higher average cash and investment balances primarily
generated from operations.
 
  Interest expense decreased to $11,967,000 in 1996, from $12,857,000 in 1995
and $15,311,000 in 1994. The decrease in 1996 from 1995 is primarily due to
conversions of the Debentures in April 1995. Interest expense in 1996 was
primarily due to the 4 1/4% Notes, all of which were converted to Common Stock
by January 2, 1997.
 
PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
  The provision for income taxes was $133,245,000 in 1996, $123,976,000 in
1995 and $104,716,000 in 1994, respectively, which resulted in effective tax
rates of 25.7%, 27.5% and 29.5% in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The
decrease in the effective tax rate is mainly attributable to the realization
of benefits associated with the continued progress on the Company's various
tax strategies and benefits related to offshore manufacturing.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
  Cash and cash equivalents and short and long-term investments were
$840,858,000 and $504,904,000 at December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995,
respectively, an increase of $335,954,000. In 1996, cash and cash equivalents
increased by $116,749,000.
 
  Cash provided by operating activities was $483,375,000. This was primarily
generated from net income and working capital management. Cash used by
investing activities was $374,763,000 principally for additions to
 
                                      17
<PAGE>
 
property, plant and equipment and the purchase of investments. Cash provided
by financing activities was $8,718,000, principally due to proceeds from stock
option exercises offset by repurchases of Common Stock. In November 1996, the
Board of Directors rescinded the program under which Common Stock had been
repurchased during 1996.
 
  In November 1996, the Company announced that it would redeem on January 1,
1997 all outstanding 4 1/4% Notes. The aggregate principal amount of the 4
1/4% Notes outstanding at the time of announcement was $229,498,000. The 4
1/4% Notes, issued by EMC in December 1993 and January 1994 in an amount
totaling $230 million, were generally convertible into shares of Common Stock
of the Company at any time prior to the redemption date at a conversion price
of $19.84 per share. At December 31, 1996, the holders of approximately $87
million principal amount had elected to convert the 4 1/4% Notes to Common
Stock. On January 2, 1997, the Company paid approximately $65,000 to redeem 4
1/4% Notes outstanding and the remainder converted into Common Stock.
 
  The Company has available for use its credit line of $50,000,000 and may
elect to borrow at any time. In February 1997, the Company announced its
intention to issue and offer for sale up to approximately $517,500,000
Convertible Subordinated Notes due 2002 in an offering exempt from the
registration requirements of the Federal Securities Laws. Based on its current
operating and capital expenditure forecasts, the Company believes funds
currently available, funds generated from operations and its available line of
credit and the net proceeds to the Company from the sale of the Notes
described above will be adequate to finance its operations as well as
potential acquisitions.
 
  To date, inflation has not had a material impact on the Company's financial
results.
 
  The Company will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 125
"Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities" in 1997. This Statement provides accounting
and reporting standards for transfers and servicing of financial assets and
extinguishments of liabilities. The Statement also provides consistent
standards for distinguishing transfers of financial assets that are sales from
transfers that are secured borrowings. The Company believes that adoption will
not have a material effect on its financial statements.
 
FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS
 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking statements
within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ
materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result
of certain risk factors, including but not limited to those set forth below,
other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and
from time to time in EMC's other filings at the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.
 
UNEVEN PATTERN OF QUARTERLY RESULTS
 
  There has been a historic and recurring "hockey stick" pattern of the
Company's quarterly sales, by which a disproportionate percentage of a
quarter's total sales occur in the last month and weeks and days of each
quarter, making prediction of revenues, earnings and working capital for each
financial period especially difficult and uncertain and increasing the risk of
unanticipated variations in quarterly results and financial condition.
 
  This pattern of sales is itself believed to be the result of many factors
including the significant size of EMC's average product price in relation to
its customers' budgets, resulting in long lead times for customers' budgetary
approval, which tends to be given late in a quarter; the tendency of customers
to wait until late in a quarter to commit to purchase in the hope of obtaining
more favorable pricing from one or more competitors seeking their business;
and, at times, seasonal influences, as well as the fourth quarter influence of
customers' spending their remaining capital budget authorization prior to new
budget constraints in the next year's first quarter.
 
  The "hockey stick" pattern of the Company's sales also makes it extremely
difficult to predict near-term demand and adjust manufacturing capacity
accordingly. Substantial variance of orders from the predicted
 
                                      18
<PAGE>
 
demand may limit the Company's ability to assemble, test and ship orders
received in the last weeks and days of each quarter, which could adversely
affect quarterly revenues and earnings.
 
  In addition, revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent on orders
booked and shipped in that quarter and the Company's backlog at any particular
time is not necessarily indicative of future sales levels. This is because the
Company manufactures its products on the basis of its forecast of near-term
demand and maintains inventory in advance of receipt of firm orders from
customers; orders are generally shipped by the Company shortly after receipt
of the order; and customers may reschedule orders with little or no penalty.
These are additional factors making the prediction of revenues extremely
difficult. Further, any unexpected decline in revenues without a corresponding
and timely slowdown in expenses could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business, results of operations or financial condition.
 
COMPETITION
 
  There is strong competition in the computer data storage industry. EMC
competes with many companies in the mainframe and open systems markets,
certain of which have substantially greater financial and technological
resources, larger distribution capabilities, earlier access to customers and
greater overall customer loyalty than EMC. In the mainframe market, EMC
competes primarily with IBM. In the open systems market, the Company's primary
competition is provided by systems vendors, including IBM, DEC and Sun. In the
Company's opinion, the major competitive advantage of the open systems vendors
is their overall market presence and ability to provide integrated CPU,
storage and software packages. EMC's business may be adversely affected by the
announcement or introduction of new products by its competitors, price
reductions of its competitors' equipment or services and the implementation of
certain marketing strategies by its competitors. As a significant number of
EMC's products are designed to be fully compatible with IBM computers and IBM
operating systems, EMC's business could also be adversely affected by
modifications in the design or configuration of IBM computer systems.
 
PRICING
 
  Competitive pricing pressures exist in the computer storage market, and have
had and may in the future have an adverse effect on the Company's revenues and
earnings. There also has been and may continue to be a willingness on the part
of certain large competitors to reduce prices in order to preserve or gain
market share, which cannot be foreseen by the Company. The Company believes
that pricing pressures are likely to continue as competitors develop more
competitive product offerings.
 
  To date, the Company has been able to manage its component and product
design costs. However, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able
to continue to achieve reductions in component and product design costs. The
relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines could
have an adverse effect on the Company's earnings.
 
DEPENDENCE ON SUPPLIERS
 
  The Company purchases certain components and products from suppliers who EMC
believes are currently the only suppliers of those components or products that
meet EMC's requirements. Among the most important components that EMC uses are
disk drives and high density memory components ("DRAMs"). Disk drives are a
key component of the Company's products and the Company currently purchases
substantially all of its disk drives from a single supplier. EMC purchases
DRAMs from a small number of qualified suppliers. A failure by any supplier of
disk drives, high density DRAMs or other components to meet EMC's delivery or
quality requirements for an extended period of time could have a material
adverse effect on EMC. The Company is currently transitioning its product line
from use of 5.25^ 9 GB disk drives to new 3.5^ 9 GB and 5.25^ 23 GB disk drive
technologies. This transition may intensify the above risks. From time to
time, because of high industry demand and/or the inability of certain vendors
to consistently meet on a timely basis the Company's component quality
standards, the Company has experienced delays in deliveries of disk drives and
high density
 
                                      19
<PAGE>
 
DRAMs needed to satisfy orders for its ICDA products. The Company is currently
working with such vendors to proactively maintain and/or improve component
quality standards and also continues to seek alternative sources of supply. If
such shortages and/or performance problems were to intensify, the Company
could lose some time-sensitive customer orders which could adversely affect
quarterly revenues and earnings. The adverse effect of a supplier's failure to
meet EMC's requirements may be intensified by the "hockey stick" pattern of
the Company's sales and the necessity of meeting critical manufacturing
schedules.
 
NEW PRODUCTS
 
  Technology and user needs change rapidly in the computer data storage
industry, which requires ongoing technological development and introduction of
new products. Sales of the Symmetrix series of products constitute the
principal source of revenues for EMC and such sales are expected to continue
to be the principal source of its revenues in the near future. EMC expects
competition in the sale of ICDA products to increase, and there can be no
assurance that the Symmetrix series of products will continue to achieve
market acceptance. Significant delays in the development of ICDA technology
for future products or product enhancements would be to the advantage of EMC's
competitors. Furthermore, the continued development of ICDA technology and its
incorporation into EMC's future generations of products cannot be assured even
with significant additional investments.
 
  Further risks inherent in new product introductions include the uncertainty
of price-performance relative to products of competitors, including
competitors' responses to the introductions, and the desire by customers to
evaluate new, more expensive products for longer periods of time.
 
CHANGE IN REGULATIONS
 
  The Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could
be adversely affected if laws, regulations or standards relating to the
Company or its products were newly implemented or changed.
 
MANUFACTURING RISKS
 
  EMC's products operate near the limits of electronic and physical
performance and are designed and manufactured with relatively small
tolerances. If flaws in design, production, assembly or testing occur on the
part of EMC or its suppliers, EMC may experience a rate of failure in its
products that results in substantial repair or replacement costs and potential
damage to EMC's reputation. Continued improvement in manufacturing
capabilities and control of material and manufacturing quality and costs will
be critical factors in the future growth of EMC. EMC frequently revises and
updates manufacturing and test processes to address engineering and component
changes to its products and evaluates the reallocation of manufacturing
resources among its facilities. There can be no assurance that EMC's efforts
to monitor, develop and implement appropriate test and manufacturing processes
for its products, especially the Symmetrix series of products, will be
sufficient to permit EMC to avoid a rate of failure in its products that
results in substantial delays in shipment, significant repair or replacement
costs and potential damage to EMC's reputation, any of which could have a
substantial adverse effect on EMC's operations and ultimately on its financial
results.
 
INDIRECT CHANNELS OF DISTRIBUTION
 
  In 1996, the Company derived a significant percentage of its product
revenues from reseller and OEM channels. A substantial portion of these
reseller and OEM revenues stems from the Company's reseller agreement with HP,
which currently expires in June of 1997. The Company's financial results could
be adversely affected if such contracts were terminated, if the Company's
relationship with such resellers or OEMs were to deteriorate or if the
financial condition of its resellers and OEMs were to weaken. In addition, the
Company is currently experiencing growth in the transition from the mainframe
to the open systems market. In this regard, the Company may have an increased
reliance on indirect channels of distribution. There can be no assurance that
the Company will be successful in maintaining or expanding these indirect
channels of distribution. If the Company is not successful, the Company may
lose certain sales opportunities. Furthermore, the partial reliance on
indirect channels of distribution may materially reduce the visibility to
management of potential orders.
 
                                      20
<PAGE>
 
ALLIANCES
 
  Many of the Company's products are marketed in conjunction with the products
of other vendors, and the Company plans to continue its strategy of developing
key alliances. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful
in its ongoing strategic partnerships or that the Company will be able to find
further suitable business relationships as it develops new products. Any
failure to continue or expand such relationships could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of
operation.
 
  There can be no assurance that the Company's distributors and strategic
partners, many of which have significantly greater financial and marketing
resources than the Company, will not develop and market products in
competition with the Company in the future, discontinue their relationships
with the Company, or form competing arrangements with the Company's
competitors.
 
INTERNATIONAL SALES
 
  A substantial portion of the Company's revenues is derived from sales
outside the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of the Company's
products are manufactured outside of the United States. Accordingly, the
Company's future results could be adversely affected by a variety of factors,
including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a specific
country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade restrictions,
import or export licensing requirements, the overlap of different tax
structures or changes in international tax laws, changes in regulatory
requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations and
longer payment cycles in certain countries.
 
MANAGEMENT OF GROWTH
 
  The Company has a history of rapid growth. The Company's future operating
results will depend on management's ability to manage growth, continuously
hire and retain significant numbers of qualified employees, forecast revenues
and control expenses. An unexpected decline in the growth rate of revenues
without a corresponding and timely reduction in expense growth could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of operations or
financial condition.
 
DEPENDENCE UPON KEY PERSONNEL
 
  The Company's continued growth and success depends to a significant extent
on the continued service of senior management and other key employees and the
hiring of new qualified employees. Competition for highly-skilled personnel is
intense in the high technology industry. There can be no assurance that the
Company will be successful in continuously recruiting new personnel and in
retaining existing personnel. The loss of one or more key employees or the
Company's inability to attract additional qualified employees or retain other
employees could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business,
results of operations or financial condition.
 
ENFORCEMENT OF THE COMPANY'S INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
 
  No assurance can be given that the Company's patent applications will issue
as patents or that any patents that may issue will provide the Company with
adequate protection for the covered products or technology. Additionally,
there can be no assurance that the Company's confidentiality agreements will
adequately protect its trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary
information. Further, there can be no assurance that the Company's activities
will not infringe on the patents or proprietary rights of others or that the
Company will be able to obtain licenses to any technology that it may require
to conduct its business or that, if obtainable, such technology can be
licensed at a reasonable cost. Although the Company has significantly
increased its patents and patent applications, the rapidly changing technology
of the computer industry makes EMC's future success dependent upon the
technical competence and creative skills of its personnel rather than on
existing patent protection.
 
                                      21
<PAGE>
 
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FUTURE ACQUISITIONS
 
  As part of its business strategy, the Company may make acquisitions of, or
significant investments in, businesses that offer complementary products,
services and technologies. Any such future acquisitions or investments would
be accompanied by the risks commonly encountered in an acquisition of a
business. Such risks include, among other things, the difficulty of
assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, the
inability of management to maximize the financial and strategic position of
the Company through the successful incorporation of acquired personnel and
customers, the maintenance of uniform standards, controls, procedures and
policies and the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a
result of any integration of new management personnel. These factors could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, results of
operations or financial condition. The Company expects that the consideration
paid for future acquisitions, if any, could be in the form of cash, stock,
rights to purchase stock or a combination thereof. Dilution to existing
stockholders and to earnings per share may result to the extent that shares of
stock or other rights to purchase stock are issued in connection with any such
future acquisitions.
 
VOLATILITY OF STOCK PRICE
 
  The Company's stock price, like that of other technology companies, is
subject to significant volatility. The announcement of new products, services
or technological innovations by the Company or its competitors, quarterly
variations in the Company's results of operations, changes in revenue or
earnings estimates by the investment community and speculation in the press or
investment community are among the factors affecting the Company's stock
price. In addition, the stock price may be affected by general market
conditions and domestic and international economic factors unrelated to the
Company's performance. Because of these reasons, recent trends should not be
considered reliable indicators of future stock prices or financial results.
 
                                      22
<PAGE>
 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Stockholders and the
Board of Directors of EMC Corporation:
 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of EMC
Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995, and the related
consolidated statements of income, cash flows and stockholders' equity and the
financial statement schedule for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1996. These financial statements and the financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and the
financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of EMC
Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996 in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. In addition, in our opinion, the financial
statement schedule referred to above, when considered in relation to the basic
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information required to be included therein.
 
                                          COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
 
Boston, Massachusetts
January 23, 1997
 
                                      23
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30,
                                                          1996         1995
                                                      ------------ ------------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
                       ASSETS
Current assets:
 Cash and cash equivalents...........................  $  496,377   $  379,628
 Short-term investments..............................     230,981          --
 Trade and notes receivable less allowance for
  doubtful accounts of $7,368 and $7,062,
  respectively.......................................     627,409      550,473
 Inventories.........................................     336,581      330,160
 Deferred income taxes...............................      43,421       44,061
 Other assets........................................      19,367       14,633
                                                       ----------   ----------
Total current assets.................................   1,754,136    1,318,955
Long-term investments................................     113,500      125,276
Notes receivable, net................................      20,013       26,497
Property, plant and equipment, net...................     276,387      218,901
Deferred income taxes................................      16,664        9,200
Intangible assets, net...............................      52,382       20,078
Other assets.........................................      60,464       26,822
                                                       ----------   ----------
   Total assets......................................  $2,293,546   $1,745,729
                                                       ==========   ==========
        LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:
 Current portion of long-term obligations............  $    7,058   $      915
 Accounts payable....................................     172,871      111,721
 Accrued expenses....................................     122,562      130,596
 Income taxes payable................................     104,899      107,717
 Deferred revenue....................................      10,112        8,411
                                                       ----------   ----------
Total current liabilities............................     417,502      359,360
Deferred revenue.....................................       2,019          223
Deferred income taxes................................      46,002          --
Long-term obligations:
 4 1/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2001......     142,720      229,598
 Notes payable and other noncurrent liabilities......      48,514       16,247
                                                       ----------   ----------
Total liabilities....................................     656,757      605,428
                                                       ----------   ----------
Commitments and contingencies
Stockholders' equity:
 Series Preferred Stock, par value $.01; authorized
  25,000,000 shares, none outstanding................         --           --
 Common Stock, par value $.01; authorized 500,000,000
  shares; issued 238,239,672 and 232,517,845, in 1996
  and 1995, respectively.............................       2,382        2,325
 Additional paid-in capital..........................     463,687      350,989
 Deferred compensation...............................      (7,027)      (2,140)
 Retained earnings...................................   1,172,828      786,599
 Cumulative translation adjustment...................       4,919        3,766
 Treasury stock, at cost, none and 2,646,453 shares
  in 1996 and 1995, respectively.....................         --        (1,238)
                                                       ----------   ----------
   Total stockholders' equity........................   1,636,789    1,140,301
                                                       ----------   ----------
     Total liabilities and stockholders' equity......  $2,293,546   $1,745,729
                                                       ==========   ==========
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       24
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      YEAR ENDED
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30, DECEMBER 31,
                                            1996         1995         1994
                                        ------------ ------------ ------------
<S>                                     <C>          <C>          <C>
Revenues:
  Net sales............................  $2,218,292   $1,878,215   $1,343,065
  Service and rental...................      55,360       43,060       34,427
                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
                                          2,273,652    1,921,275    1,377,492
Costs and expenses:
  Cost of sales and service............   1,248,950    1,002,876      660,034
  Research and development.............     161,088      162,611      117,922
  Selling, general and administrative..     367,073      320,009      249,004
                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Operating income.......................     496,541      435,779      350,532
Investment income......................      34,476       23,620       21,619
Interest expense.......................     (11,967)     (12,857)     (15,311)
Other income/(expense), net............         424        4,279       (1,456)
                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Income before taxes....................     519,474      450,821      355,384
Income tax provision...................     133,245      123,976      104,716
                                         ----------   ----------   ----------
Net income.............................  $  386,229   $  326,845   $  250,668
                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Net income per weighted average share,
 primary...............................  $     1.57   $     1.36   $     1.18
                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Net income per weighted average share,
 fully diluted.........................  $     1.56   $     1.34   $     1.10
                                         ==========   ==========   ==========
Weighted average shares, primary.......     249,295      245,386      218,046
Weighted average shares, fully
 diluted...............................     251,431      248,296      234,255
</TABLE>
 
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       25
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     FOR THE YEAR ENDED
                                           --------------------------------------
                                           DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30, DECEMBER 31,
                                               1996         1995         1994
                                           ------------ ------------ ------------
<S>                                        <C>          <C>          <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
 Net income..............................   $ 386,229    $ 326,845    $ 250,668
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to
  net cash provided/(used) by operating
  activities:
  Depreciation and amortization..........      86,949       53,617       32,728
  Deferred income taxes, net.............      39,178       (6,587)     (18,267)
  Net loss on disposal of property and
   equipment.............................       1,125          635          262
  Tax benefit from stock options
   exercised.............................      17,746       11,165       26,698
  Changes in assets and liabilities:
   Trade and notes receivable............     (69,103)    (156,719)    (221,708)
   Inventories...........................      (6,480)     (74,351)    (133,159)
   Other assets..........................     (24,433)     (30,984)     (19,526)
   Accounts payable......................      61,458      (16,061)      78,698
   Accrued expenses......................      (9,955)      22,432       46,448
   Income taxes payable..................      (2,836)      49,275       34,629
   Deferred revenue......................       3,497       (1,889)         (65)
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
    Net cash provided by operating
     activities..........................     483,375      177,378       77,406
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
 Additions to property, plant and
  equipment..............................    (125,973)     (92,200)    (108,968)
 Proceeds from sales of property and
  equipment..............................       1,441           39          445
 Capitalized software development costs..     (24,693)      (5,000)         --
 Purchase of patents.....................      (6,333)         --           --
 Maturity of short-term and long-term
  investments............................     206,061       67,284       18,478
 Purchase of short-term and long-term
  investments............................    (425,266)     (16,929)    (143,717)
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
    Net cash used by investing
     activities..........................    (374,763)     (46,806)    (233,762)
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
 Issuance of common stock................      33,181       19,438        9,596
 Purchase of treasury stock..............     (27,457)        (415)        (320)
 Issuance of 4 1/4% convertible
  subordinated notes due 2001, net of
  issuance costs.........................         --           --        29,350
 Payment of long-term and short-term
  obligations............................      (1,295)     (10,735)      (1,272)
 Issuance of long-term and short-term
  obligations............................       4,289          545       11,715
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
    Net cash provided by financing
     activities..........................       8,718        8,833       49,069
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash..        (581)        (283)       2,493
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash
 equivalents.............................     117,330      139,405     (107,287)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
 period..................................     379,628      240,506      345,300
                                            ---------    ---------    ---------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
 period..................................   $ 496,377    $ 379,628    $ 240,506
                                            =========    =========    =========
Non-cash activity--conversions of
 debentures and notes....................   $  85,636    $  39,535    $  19,726
       --patents acquired by notes and
        other payables...................   $  37,416          --           --
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       26
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
                      (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 FOR THE THREE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                       --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                          COMMON STOCK                                                  TREASURY STOCK
                       ------------------ ADDITIONAL DEFERRED             CUMULATIVE  --------------------      TOTAL
                                    PAR    PAID-IN   COMPEN-    RETAINED  TRANSLATION                       STOCKHOLDERS'
                         SHARES    VALUE   CAPITAL    SATION    EARNINGS  ADJUSTMENT    SHARES      COST       EQUITY
                       ----------- ------ ---------- --------  ---------- ----------- ----------  --------  -------------
<S>                    <C>         <C>    <C>        <C>       <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>       <C>
Balance January 1,
 1994................. 189,936,120 $1,899  $226,668  $(3,552)  $  193,045   $1,537     2,607,996  $   (503)  $  419,094
 Exercise of stock
  options.............   5,361,342     54     8,548      --           --       --            --        --         8,602
 Tax benefit from
  stock options
  exercised...........         --     --     26,698      --           --       --            --        --        26,698
 Grant of stock
  options.............         --     --         49      (49)         --       --            --        --           --
 Issuance of common
  stock pursuant to
  bond and note
  conversions.........   6,440,580     64    19,662      --           --       --            --        --        19,726
 Amortization of
  deferred
  compensation........         --     --        --       994          --       --            --        --           994
 Purchase of treasury
  stock...............         --     --        --       --           --       --         19,471      (320)        (320)
 Cumulative
  translation
  adjustment..........         --     --        --       --           --     2,179           --        --         2,179
 Net income...........         --     --        --       --       250,668      --            --        --       250,668
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
Balance, December 31,
 1994................. 201,738,042  2,017   281,625   (2,607)     443,713    3,716     2,627,467      (823)     727,641
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
 Pooling of interests
  with McDATA
  Corporation.........  13,567,112    136     1,794      --        16,041      --            --        --        17,971
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
 Balance as restated.. 215,305,154  2,153   283,419   (2,607)     459,754    3,716     2,627,467      (823)     745,612
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
 Exercise of stock
  options.............   4,303,305     43    16,454      --           --       --            --        --        16,497
 Tax benefit from
  stock options
  exercised...........         --     --     11,165      --           --       --            --        --        11,165
 Grant of stock
  options.............         --     --        545     (545)         --       --            --        --           --
 Issuance of common
  stock pursuant to
  bond conversions....  12,909,386    129    39,406      --           --       --            --        --        39,535
 Amortization of
  deferred
  compensation........         --     --        --     1,012          --       --            --        --         1,012
 Purchase of treasury
  stock...............         --     --        --       --           --       --         18,986      (415)        (415)
 Cumulative
  translation
  adjustment..........         --     --        --       --           --        50           --        --            50
 Net income...........         --     --        --       --       326,845      --            --        --       326,845
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
Balance, December 30,
 1995................. 232,517,845  2,325   350,989   (2,140)     786,599    3,766     2,646,453    (1,238)   1,140,301
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
 Exercise of stock
  options.............   1,342,896     13     2,422      --           --       --     (3,946,453)   28,695       31,130
 Tax benefit from
  stock options
  exercised...........         --     --     17,746      --           --       --            --        --        17,746
 Grant of stock
  options.............         --     --      6,938   (6,938)         --       --            --        --           --
 Issuance of common
  stock pursuant to
  bond conversions....   4,378,931     44    85,592      --           --       --            --        --        85,636
 Amortization of
  deferred
  compensation........         --     --        --     2,051          --       --            --        --         2,051
 Purchase of treasury
  stock...............         --     --        --       --           --       --      1,300,000   (27,457)     (27,457)
 Cumulative
  translation
  adjustment..........         --     --        --       --           --     1,153           --        --         1,153
 Net income...........         --     --        --       --       386,229      --            --        --       386,229
                       ----------- ------  --------  -------   ----------   ------    ----------  --------   ----------
Balance, December 31,
 1996................. 238,239,672 $2,382  $463,687  $(7,027)  $1,172,828   $4,919           --        --    $1,636,789
                       =========== ======  ========  =======   ==========   ======    ==========  ========   ==========
</TABLE>
 
   The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       27
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
A. COMPANY
 
  EMC Corporation and its subsidiaries ("EMC" or the "Company") design,
manufacture, market and support a wide range of storage-related hardware and
software products and related services for the mainframe, open systems and
network attached computer storage markets worldwide. These products are sold
as storage solutions for customers utilizing a variety of computer system
platforms including, but not limited to, International Business Machines
Corporation ("IBM") and IBM-compatible mainframe, Unisys Corporation
("Unisys"), Compagnie des Machines Bull S.A. ("Bull"), Hewlett-Packard Company
("HP"), NCR Corporation ("NCR"), Sequent Computer Systems, Inc. ("Sequent")
and other open systems platforms.
 
B. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
 Principles of Consolidation
 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and balances
have been eliminated.
 
 Basis of Presentation
 
  On September 23, 1996, EMC elected to change its fiscal year end from a
fiscal basis which would have ended on December 28, 1996 to a calendar year
end basis ending on December 31, 1996. This change was reported on Form 8-K on
October 4, 1996. The effect on the Company's results of operations was not
material.
 
  Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with the 1996
presentation.
 
 Use of Accounting Estimates
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
 Acquisitions
 
  In December 1995, EMC exchanged 13,567,112 shares of EMC common stock, $.01
par value (the "Common Stock") for all of the outstanding stock and stock
options exercisable as of the closing date of McDATA Corporation ("McDATA"), a
leader in data network switching solutions. The business combination was
accounted for as a pooling of interests. The accompanying financial statements
for periods prior to 1995 do not include the amounts for this acquisition as
they were deemed to be immaterial. Only 1995 financial information has been
restated as if the transaction had occurred as of January 1, 1995.
 
  Separate company results for 1995 before the combinations were consummated
were as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 6, 1995
                                                   -------------------------------
                                                      REVENUES      NET INCOME
                                                   --------------- ---------------
     <S>                                           <C>             <C>
     EMC.......................................... $ 1,402,059,000 $ 197,303,000
     McDATA.......................................     148,253,000    41,748,000
                                                   --------------- -------------
       Total...................................... $ 1,550,312,000 $ 239,051,000
                                                   =============== =============
</TABLE>
 
  The Company acquired several other companies in the last three years, all
accounted for using the purchase method, which were not significant to its
financial position or results of operations. Under the purchase method,
 
                                      28
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
the results of operations of acquired companies are included prospectively
from the date of acquisition, and the acquisition cost is allocated to the
acquirees' assets and liabilities based upon their fair market values at the
date of acquisition.
 
  At December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995 the net book value of goodwill
associated with acquisitions was $12,870,000 and $15,070,000, respectively.
Goodwill is being amortized on a straight line basis over five years and is
included in intangible assets, net. Accumulated amortization was $6,996,000
and $3,186,000 on December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995, respectively.
 
  The Company implemented Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets
to Be Disposed Of" in 1996. This standard prescribes the method for asset
impairment evaluation for long-lived assets and certain identifiable
intangibles that are either held and used or to be disposed of based upon the
excess of the carrying amount of such assets over their fair values. The
Company was generally in conformance with this standard prior to adoption and
therefore the implementation did not have a material effect on its financial
statements.
 
 Revenue Recognition
 
  The Company generally recognizes revenue from product sales at the time the
products are shipped provided no significant vendor obligations remain and the
resulting receivable is deemed collectible by management. Upon shipment, the
Company provides for estimated product returns and the estimated cost that may
be incurred for product warranties. Revenue from rentals is recorded on a
monthly basis over the life of the contracts. Revenue from sales-type leases
is recognized at the net present value of expected future payments. Service
revenue is recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered.
 
 Foreign Currency Translation
 
  The local currency is the functional currency of sales operations in Canada,
South America, Europe, South Africa and the Asia Pacific region (except Hong
Kong). Assets and liabilities of these operations are translated into U.S.
dollars at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and income and
expense items are translated at average rates for the period, except for
inventories and property, plant and equipment which are translated at
historical exchange rates. The Company's operations in Ireland, Israel and
Hong Kong are generally dependent on the U.S. dollar. Consolidated transaction
results included in other income/(expense), net were gains of $1,044,000 in
1996 and $1,667,000 in 1995, and losses of $1,072,000 in 1994.
 
 Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
  Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments with a
remaining maturity of ninety days or less at the time of purchase. These
investments are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates
market.
 
 Investments
 
  The Company's investments are comprised primarily of debt securities which
are held-to-maturity. Investments with remaining maturities of less than
twelve months from the balance sheet date are classified as short-term
investments. Investments with remaining maturities of more than twelve months
from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term investments.
 
                                      29
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
 Statement of Cash Flows Supplemental Information
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                1996        1995        1994
                                             ----------- ----------- -----------
     <S>                                     <C>         <C>         <C>
     Cash paid for:
       Income taxes......................... $78,651,000 $70,389,000 $76,539,000
       Interest.............................  11,428,000  12,965,000  10,854,000
</TABLE>
 
 Inventories
 
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out) or market,
not in excess of net realizable value.
 
 Property, Plant and Equipment
 
  Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is computed
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as
follows:
 
<TABLE>
        <S>                                                      <C>
        Furniture and fixtures.................................. 7 years
        Equipment............................................... 3-7 years
        Transportation equipment................................ 5-10 years
        Improvements............................................ 5 years
        Buildings............................................... 25-31 1/2 years
</TABLE>
 
  When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and accumulated
depreciation thereon are removed from the accounts and the related gains or
losses are included in operations.
 
 Capitalized Software Development Costs
 
  Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Software
development costs incurred subsequent to establishment of technological
feasibility through the general release of the software products are
capitalized. Technological feasibility is demonstrated by the completion of a
detailed program design. Such costs are amortized on a straight-line basis
over two years. Unamortized software development costs were approximately
$22,508,000 and $5,000,000 at December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995,
respectively, and are included in other assets, noncurrent. In 1996
amortization expense was $7,185,000. No amortization expense was recorded in
1995.
 
 Income Taxes
 
  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are recognized for the expected future
tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements
or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax liabilities and assets are
determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax
bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year
in which the differences are expected to reverse (see Note H). Tax credits are
generally recognized as reductions of income tax provisions in the year in
which the credits arise.
 
  The Company does not provide for U.S. income tax liability on undistributed
earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, except Puerto Rico. All income and
tollgate tax obligations for the Company's Puerto Rican subsidiary ("EMC
Caribe") were settled in 1996. The earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries, which
reflect full provision for non-U.S. income taxes, are indefinitely reinvested
in non-U.S. operations or will be remitted substantially free of additional
tax. Accordingly, no material provision has been made for taxes that might be
payable upon remittance of such non-U.S. earnings.
 
                                      30
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
 Net Income Per Share
 
  Net income per share was computed on the basis of weighted average common
and dilutive common share equivalents outstanding. Weighted average shares
outstanding and earnings used in the per share computations reflect the
dilutive effects of stock options, the Company's 4 1/4% Convertible
Subordinated Notes due 2001 (the "Notes") and 6 1/4% Convertible Subordinated
Debentures due 2002 (the "Debentures"). Net income for computation of earnings
per share includes an add back of $5,296,000, $6,224,000 and $7,620,000 for
fully diluted and $5,296,000, $5,855,000 and $5,838,000 for primary, in 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively, representing interest expense on the Notes and
Debentures, net of its tax effect.
 
C. INVESTMENTS
 
  The following tables summarize the composition of the Company's short and
long-term investments and includes cash equivalents of $256,943,000 and
$168,614,000 at December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995, respectively.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                                      -------------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                      ------------ ------------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
U.S. corporate debt securities....................... $412,318,000 $412,137,000
U.S. government and agencies.........................  100,231,000  100,418,000
Foreign debt securities..............................   88,875,000   89,617,000
                                                      ------------ ------------
  Total.............................................. $601,424,000 $602,172,000
                                                      ============ ============
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 30, 1995
                                                      -------------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                      ------------ ------------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
U.S. corporate debt securities....................... $259,288,000 $260,171,000
U.S. government and agencies.........................   24,602,000   24,653,000
Foreign debt securities..............................   10,000,000   10,075,000
                                                      ------------ ------------
  Total.............................................. $293,890,000 $294,899,000
                                                      ============ ============
</TABLE>
 
  The contractual maturities of investments and cash equivalents held at
December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995 are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                                      -------------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                      ------------ ------------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
Due within one year.................................. $487,924,000 $488,220,000
Due after one year through five years................  111,648,000  112,104,000
Due after five years through ten years...............          --           --
Due after ten years..................................    1,852,000    1,848,000
                                                      ------------ ------------
  Total.............................................. $601,424,000 $602,172,000
                                                      ============ ============
</TABLE>
 
                                      31
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          DECEMBER 30, 1995
                                                      -------------------------
                                                       AMORTIZED    AGGREGATE
                                                       COST BASIS   FAIR VALUE
                                                      ------------ ------------
<S>                                                   <C>          <C>
Due within one year.................................. $168,614,000 $168,614,000
Due after one year through five years................  109,424,000  110,412,000
Due after five years through ten years...............   14,102,000   14,027,000
Due after ten years..................................    1,750,000    1,846,000
                                                      ------------ ------------
  Total.............................................. $293,890,000 $294,899,000
                                                      ============ ============
</TABLE>
 
  The net unrealized gain of $748,000 at December 31, 1996 consisted of gross
unrealized gains of $1,241,000 and gross unrealized losses of $493,000. The
net unrealized gain of $1,009,000 at December 30, 1995 consisted of gross
unrealized gains of $1,372,000 and gross unrealized losses of $363,000.
 
  Investment income consists principally of interest income, including
interest on notes receivable from sales-type leases.
 
D. INVENTORY
 
  Inventories consist of:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                       DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30,
                                                           1996         1995
                                                       ------------ ------------
     <S>                                               <C>          <C>
     Purchased parts.................................. $ 16,610,000 $ 22,870,000
     Work-in-process..................................  210,445,000  150,216,000
     Finished goods...................................  109,526,000  157,074,000
                                                       ------------ ------------
                                                       $336,581,000 $330,160,000
                                                       ============ ============
</TABLE>
 
  The Company wrote off approximately $31,000,000, net of tax, of inventory in
the fourth quarter of 1995, primarily relating to end-of-life products and
other inventory, and other inventory-related adjustments.
 
E. LEASING TRANSACTIONS
 
  Notes receivable are primarily from installment sales of the Company's
products. The payment schedule for such notes at December 31, 1996 is as
follows:
 
<TABLE>
     <S>                                                            <C>
     1997.......................................................... $19,845,000
     1998..........................................................  12,224,000
     1999..........................................................  10,501,000
     2000..........................................................   3,220,000
     2001..........................................................     967,000
                                                                    -----------
     Face value....................................................  46,757,000
     Less amounts representing interest............................   5,863,000
                                                                    -----------
     Present value.................................................  40,894,000
     Current portion...............................................  20,881,000
                                                                    -----------
     Long-term portion............................................. $20,013,000
                                                                    ===========
</TABLE>
 
  Implicit interest rates range from approximately 8% to 9%.
 
                                      32
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Actual cash collections may differ, however, due to customer early buyouts,
upgrades and refinancings.
 
  The Company receives proceeds for its sales-type leases through third-party
financing arrangements with various financial institutions on a nonrecourse
basis, which may be either collateralized by a lien on the equipment, which is
returned to the Company at the end of the lease, or title to the equipment may
pass to the funding source at the time of financing. Residuals values recorded
by the Company for equipment under leases at December 31, 1996 and December
30, 1995 were $24,602,000 and $10,871,000, respectively, and are included in
other assets, noncurrent.
 
F. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 
  Property, plant and equipment consist of:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 30,
                                                         1996          1995
                                                     ------------  ------------
     <S>                                             <C>           <C>
     Furniture and fixtures......................... $ 11,498,000  $  8,950,000
     Equipment......................................  313,283,000   260,882,000
     Transportation equipment.......................    8,821,000       873,000
     Buildings and improvements.....................   76,427,000    53,748,000
     Land...........................................    2,964,000     1,870,000
     Construction in progress.......................   43,988,000    20,273,000
                                                     ------------  ------------
                                                      456,981,000   346,596,000
     Accumulated depreciation....................... (180,594,000) (127,695,000)
                                                     ------------  ------------
                                                     $276,387,000  $218,901,000
                                                     ============  ============
</TABLE>
 
G. ACCRUED EXPENSES
 
  Accrued expenses consist of:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      DECEMBER 31, DECEMBER 30,
                                                          1996         1995
                                                      ------------ ------------
     <S>                                              <C>          <C>
     Salaries and benefits........................... $ 62,617,000 $ 67,007,000
     Warranty........................................   20,870,000   17,798,000
     Other...........................................   39,075,000   45,791,000
                                                      ------------ ------------
                                                      $122,562,000 $130,596,000
                                                      ============ ============
</TABLE>
 
H. INCOME TAXES
 
  The Company's provision for income taxes consists of:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         1996          1995          1994
                                     ------------  ------------  ------------
     <S>                             <C>           <C>           <C>
     Federal and state
       Current...................... $ 88,208,000  $123,927,000  $108,459,000
       Deferred.....................   39,394,000    (5,867,000)  (18,421,000)
                                     ------------  ------------  ------------
                                      127,602,000   118,060,000    90,038,000
                                     ------------  ------------  ------------
     Foreign
       Current......................    5,859,000     6,636,000    14,524,000
       Deferred.....................     (216,000)     (720,000)      154,000
                                     ------------  ------------  ------------
                                        5,643,000     5,916,000    14,678,000
                                     ------------  ------------  ------------
     Total provision for income
      taxes......................... $133,245,000  $123,976,000  $104,716,000
                                     ============  ============  ============
</TABLE>
 
                                      33
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Net undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries at December 31, 1996 and
December 30, 1995 approximated $545,945,000 and $388,411,000, respectively.
Based on the Company's policy of indefinite reinvestment in non-U.S.
operations, it is not currently practicable to determine the tax liability
associated with the repatriation of these earnings. Income before income taxes
for foreign operations for 1996, 1995 and 1994 approximated $163,177,000,
$172,933,000 and $152,363,000, respectively.
 
  A reconciliation of the Company's income tax provision to the statutory
federal tax rate is as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              1996   1995  1994
                                                              -----  ----  ----
     <S>                                                      <C>    <C>   <C>
     Statutory federal tax rate..............................  35.0% 35.0% 35.0%
     State taxes, net of federal tax benefits................   3.0   3.6   2.6
     International tax benefits.............................. (10.8) (8.5) (7.2)
     Tax credits.............................................   (.8) (1.4)  (.7)
     Other...................................................   (.7) (1.2)  (.2)
                                                              -----  ----  ----
                                                               25.7% 27.5% 29.5%
                                                              =====  ====  ====
</TABLE>
 
  The Company's manufacturing facility in Ireland incurs a 10% tax rate on
income from manufacturing operations until the year 2010. The Company's Puerto
Rico operation ("EMC Caribe") benefited from a ten year exemption which
expired in 1995, on up to 90% of its income as a result of the Company's Grant
of Industrial Tax Exemption issued by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. EMC
Caribe ceased manufacturing operations in February 1994 and was liquidated in
January 1997.
 
  The components of the current and noncurrent deferred tax assets and
liabilities as of December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995 were as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1996         1995
                                                     ------------  -----------
     <S>                                             <C>           <C>
     Current deferred tax assets/(liabilities):
     Accounts receivable...........................  $ 11,517,000  $10,499,000
     Inventory.....................................    16,336,000   27,580,000
     Other liabilities.............................     7,440,000    5,793,000
     Other assets..................................     8,128,000    8,273,000
     Puerto Rico tollgate tax......................           --    (8,084,000)
                                                     ------------  -----------
       Total current deferred tax assets...........  $ 43,421,000  $44,061,000
                                                     ============  ===========
     Noncurrent deferred tax assets:
     Fixed assets..................................     4,852,000    2,756,000
     Intangible assets.............................     4,069,000          --
     Net operating loss carryforwards..............    10,933,000    9,984,000
     Research and development credit carryforward..     1,342,000    1,144,000
     Other.........................................     2,830,000    2,113,000
     Valuation reserve.............................    (7,362,000)  (6,797,000)
                                                     ------------  -----------
     Subtotal......................................    16,664,000    9,200,000
                                                     ------------  -----------
     Deferral of lease revenue.....................   (37,082,000)         --
     Software development costs....................    (8,920,000)         --
                                                     ------------  -----------
     Subtotal......................................   (46,002,000)         --
                                                     ------------  -----------
       Total noncurrent deferred tax
        assets/(liabilities).......................  $(29,338,000) $ 9,200,000
                                                     ============  ===========
</TABLE>
 
                                      34
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  The valuation allowance on December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995 provided
reserves against non-U.S. operating loss carryforwards which may expire before
the Company can utilize them. The realization of the remaining deferred tax
assets is more likely than not.
 
  The Company has net operating loss carryforwards as of December 31, 1996
which are summarized as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             CARRYFORWARD PERIOD
                                           APPROXIMATE VALUE DURING WHICH LOSSES
     COUNTRY                                IN U.S. DOLLARS      WILL EXPIRE
     -------                               ----------------- -------------------
     <S>                                   <C>               <C>
     France...............................    $15,867,000     5 years/1997-1999
     Japan................................      2,756,000     5 years/1999-2000
     United States........................      9,155,000    15 years/2002-2008
</TABLE>
 
  The U.S. losses relate to the pre-acquisition losses of companies acquired.
The losses in France relate to a wholly-owned subsidiary of EMC in France and
the losses of Japan relate to a 95% owned subsidiary of EMC in Japan.
 
  The Company is currently undergoing an examination of its 1992, 1993 and
1994 tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service. The Company believes its
financial position appropriately reflects its income tax obligations.
 
I. EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION PLANS
 
  The Company has established a deferred compensation program for certain
employees which is qualified under Section 401(k) of the federal tax laws.
 
  The Company intends, at the end of each calendar quarter, to make a
contribution that matches 100% of the employee's contribution up to a maximum
of 2% of the employee's quarterly compensation. Additionally, provided that
certain quarterly profit goals are attained, the Company in succeeding
quarters, will provide an additional matching contribution of 1% of the
employee's quarterly compensation up to a maximum quarterly matching
contribution not to exceed 5% of compensation. However, the Company's matching
contribution per participant has a quarterly limit of $500. The Company's
contribution amounted to approximately $3,836,000 in 1996, $3,124,000 in 1995
and $2,277,000 in 1994, pursuant to this formula.
 
  Costs associated with certain postretirement or postemployment benefit plans
other than plans that exist in certain foreign subsidiaries as required by law
are not significant.
 
J. COMMITMENTS AND LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS
 
 Operating Lease Commitments
 
  The Company leases office and warehouse facilities under various operating
leases. Facilities rent expense amounted to $12,196,000, $11,095,000, and
$10,277,000 in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The Company's commitments
under its operating leases are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    OPERATING
     FISCAL YEAR                                                      LEASES
     -----------                                                   ------------
     <S>                                                           <C>
     1997......................................................... $ 43,690,000
     1998.........................................................   33,722,000
     1999.........................................................   14,242,000
     2000.........................................................    4,418,000
     2001.........................................................    3,397,000
     Thereafter...................................................   10,686,000
                                                                   ------------
     Total minimum lease payments................................. $110,155,000
                                                                   ============
</TABLE>
 
                                      35
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
 Lines of Credit
 
  EMC has a line of credit providing a maximum of $50,000,000 at LIBOR plus 30
basis points. At December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995, there were no
borrowings outstanding. The Company must maintain certain minimum financial
ratios including a minimum level of working capital and tangible net worth
upon utilization of the line of credit.
 
 4 1/4% Notes
 
  In November 1996, the Company announced that it would redeem on January 1,
1997 all outstanding 4 1/4% convertible subordinated notes due 2001 (the
"Notes"). The aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time of
announcement was $229,498,000. The Notes, issued by EMC in December 1993 and
January 1994 in an amount totaling $230 million, were generally convertible
into shares of Common Stock of the Company at any time prior to the redemption
date at a conversion price of $19.84 per share.
 
  At December 31, 1996, the holders of approximately $87 million principal
amount had elected to convert the Notes to common stock. On January 2, 1997,
the Company paid approximately $65,000 to redeem Notes outstanding and the
remainder converted into Common Stock.
 
 Long-Term Obligations
 
  The Company has a $14,000,000 mortgage collateralized by the Company's
primary U.S. manufacturing facility. The mortgage is payable in monthly
installments, calculated on a 30 year amortization schedule at 10.5%, with a
lump sum payment of approximately $12,835,000 due on April 1, 1999.
 
 IDA Grant
 
  The Industrial Development Authority ("IDA") of Ireland has granted the
Company a total of $5,189,000 towards the purchase price and improvements to
the Company's facility in Ireland. The grants are included in long-term
obligations and are amortized over the related estimated useful lives of the
assets purchased of twenty-five years for building improvements and seven
years for purchase equipment. Remaining unamortized grants at December 31,
1996 are $4,555,000, of which $324,000 is current and $4,231,000 is long-term.
 
 Purchase of Patent Portfolio
 
  In February 1996, the Company acquired a patent portfolio valued at $40
million. Payments of $5 million have been made to date with the remainder due
in annual installments over five years. The asset is being amortized over the
estimated useful life of five years and is included in intangible assets, net.
Accumulated amortization at December 31, 1996 was approximately $7,333,000.
 
                                      36
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Payments remaining on the above commitments and other noncurrent liabilities
(excluding the IDA grant) are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     FISCAL YEAR
     -----------
     <S>                                                            <C>
     1997.......................................................... $ 8,169,000
     1998..........................................................  11,746,000
     1999..........................................................  20,140,000
     2000..........................................................   7,010,000
     2001..........................................................   7,000,000
                                                                    -----------
     Total minimum payments........................................  54,065,000
     Less amounts representing interest............................   3,048,000
                                                                    -----------
     Present value of net payments.................................  51,017,000
     Current portion...............................................   6,734,000
                                                                    -----------
     Long-term portion............................................. $44,283,000
                                                                    ===========
</TABLE>
 
K. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
 Preferred Stock
 
  The Company's Series Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one
or more series, with such terms as the Board of Directors may determine,
without further action by the stockholders of the Company.
 
 Common Stock Repurchase Program
 
  In January 1996, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase
of up to 15 million shares of the Company's Common Stock over a five year
period. As of December 31, 1996, the Company had repurchased 1,300,000 shares
of Common Stock for approximately $27,000,000, all of which has been reissued
in connection with stock option exercises.
 
  In November 1996, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had
rescinded the program to avoid any potential issues regarding pooling of
interests treatment.
 
 Stock Option Plans
 
  The Board of Directors and stockholders adopted the EMC Corporation 1993 and
1985 Stock Option Plans (the "1993 Plan" and the "1985 Plan," respectively) to
provide qualified incentive stock options and nonqualified stock options to
key employees. A total of 8,000,000 and 36,000,000 shares of Common Stock have
been reserved for issuance under the 1993 Plan and the 1985 Plan,
respectively.
 
  Under the terms of the 1993 Plan and the 1985 Plan, the exercise price of
incentive stock options issued must be equal to at least the fair market value
of the Common Stock at the date of grant. In the event that nonqualified stock
options are granted under the 1993 Plan, the exercise price may be less than
the fair market value at the time of grant but not less than par value which
is $.01 per share. In the event that nonqualified stock options are granted
under the 1985 Plan, the exercise price may be less than the fair market value
at the time of grant, but in the case of employees not subject to Section 16
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Section 16") not less than par value
which is $.01 per share, and in the case of employees subject to Section 16,
not less than 50% of the fair market value at the time of grant. Since May
1995, no new incentive stock options have been available for grant under the
1985 Plan.
 
                                      37
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  In 1996, an officer was granted options to purchase 250,000 shares of Common
Stock at $9.25, representing 50% of the per share fair market value at the
date of grant and vesting over five years. In 1994, an employee was granted
options to purchase 5,000 shares of Common Stock at $9.94, representing 50% of
the per share fair market value at the date of grant and vesting over five
years. Discounts from fair market value have been recorded as deferred
compensation and are being amortized over the respective vesting periods of
the options.
 
  The 1992 EMC Corporation Stock Option Plan for Directors (the "Directors
Plan") was adopted by the stockholders in May 1992. A total of 1,800,000
shares of Common Stock have been reserved for issuance under the Directors
Plan. The exercise price for each option granted under the Directors Plan will
be at a price per share determined at the time the option is granted, but not
less than 50% of the per share fair market value of Common Stock at the date
of grant.
 
  In 1996, a director was granted options to purchase 500,000 shares of Common
Stock at $9.25, representing 50% of the per share fair market value at the
date of grant. In 1995, two directors were granted options to purchase 80,000
shares of Common Stock at $6.81, representing 50% of the per share fair market
value at the date of grant. The discounts from fair market value have been
recorded as deferred compensation and are being amortized over the three year
vesting period of the options.
 
  Generally, when shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of incentive stock
options are sold within one year of exercise or within two years from the date
of grant, the Company derives a tax deduction measured by the amount that the
fair market value exceeds the option price at the date the options are
exercised. When nonqualified stock options are exercised, the Company derives
a tax deduction measured by the amount that the fair market value exceeds the
option price at the date the options are exercised.
 
  As of December 31, 1996, options exercisable under the 1993 Plan, the 1985
Plan and the Directors Plan (the "Plans") approximated 2,279,997 and shares
available for future option grants approximated 1,864,420. In general, options
become exercisable in equal annual installments over the first five years
after the date of grant and expire after ten years. The vesting schedule has
been amended for newly granted formula options under the Directors Plan to a
period of three years instead of five years so as to conform to a director's
period of election to the Board of Directors. Formula options granted
subsequent to the amendment will be exercisable in increments of 33 1/3% for
the shares covered thereby on each of the first through third anniversaries of
the grant.
 
                                      38
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
 Supplemental Disclosures for Stock-Based Compensation
 
  The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in
accounting for the Plans. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", ("SFAS 123"), issued in 1995,
defined a fair value method of accounting for stock options and other equity
instruments. Under the fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the
grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the
service period, which is usually the vesting period. The Company elected to
continue to apply the accounting provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 for stock
options. The required disclosures under SFAS 123 as if the Company had applied
the new method of accounting are made below.
 
  Activity under the Plans for the year ended December 31, 1996 is as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       WTD. AVG.
                                                           NUMBER OF   EXERCISE
                                                             SHARES      PRICE
                                                           ----------  ---------
     <S>                                                   <C>         <C>
     Outstanding, January 1, 1994......................... 19,003,271   $ 4.05
     Granted..............................................  2,647,260    16.31
     Canceled.............................................   (891,200)   13.16
     Exercised............................................ (4,974,124)    2.06
                                                           ----------   ------
     Outstanding, December 31, 1994....................... 15,785,207     6.24
     Options Relating to McDATA Merger....................    493,387     0.86
     Granted..............................................  2,814,503    21.33
     Canceled............................................. (1,415,043)   12.55
     Exercised............................................ (4,163,707)    2.58
                                                           ----------   ------
     Outstanding, December 30, 1995....................... 13,514,347     9.66
     Granted..............................................  4,213,969    17.28
     Canceled.............................................   (685,561)   17.37
     Exercised............................................ (4,610,172)    4.71
                                                           ----------   ------
     Outstanding, December 31, 1996....................... 12,432,583   $13.61
                                                           ==========   ======
</TABLE>
 
  Summarized information about stock options outstanding at December 31, 1996
is as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           EXERCISABLE
                                                        ------------------
                                    WEIGHTED
                                      AVG.     WEIGHTED           WEIGHTED
                        NUMBER OF   REMAINING    AVG.               AVG.
        RANGE OF         OPTIONS   CONTRACTUAL EXERCISE NUMBER OF EXERCISE
     EXERCISE PRICES   OUTSTANDING    LIFE      PRICE    OPTIONS   PRICE
     ---------------   ----------- ----------- -------- --------- --------
     <S>               <C>         <C>         <C>      <C>       <C>
      $ 0.29- 3.71      2,615,064      5.6      $ 2.03   914,225   $ 1.93
        6.47-11.42      1,744,863      7.7        8.05   231,913     7.34
       12.44-18.50      5,090,346      8.5       16.75   725,035    14.61
       18.75-26.50      2,982,310      8.6       21.57   408,824    21.59
</TABLE>
 
  Options exercisable at December 30, 1995 and December 31, 1994 were
2,509,050 and 1,957,632, respectively.
 
                                      39
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  The fair value of each option granted during 1996 and 1995 is estimated on
the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following assumptions:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    1996   1995
                                                                    -----  ----
     <S>                                                            <C>    <C>
     Dividend yield................................................  none  none
     Expected volatility........................................... 45.0%  50.0%
     Risk-free interest rate.......................................  6.5%   6.3%
     Expected life.................................................  5.0    5.0
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
     <S>                                                                 <C>
     Weighted average fair value of options granted at fair value dur-
      ing:
       1996............................................................  $ 9.17
 
                                                                         ======
       1995............................................................  $11.04
 
                                                                         ======
     Weighted average fair value of options granted below fair value at
      date of grant during:
       1996............................................................  $12.63
 
                                                                         ======
       1995............................................................  $ 9.39
 
                                                                         ======
</TABLE>
 
  Had compensation cost for the Company's 1996 and 1995 stock option grants
been determined consistent with SFAS 123, the Company's net income and net
income per share would approximate the pro forma amounts below:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               NET INCOME PER
                                                 NET INCOME  FULLY DILUTED SHARE
                                                ------------ -------------------
     <S>                                        <C>          <C>
     As reported:
       1996.................................... $386,229,000        $1.56
       1995....................................  326,845,000         1.34
     Pro forma:
       1996.................................... $378,336,000        $1.53
       1995....................................  323,200,000         1.33
</TABLE>
 
  The effects of applying SFAS 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
indicative of future amounts. SFAS 123 does not apply to awards made prior to
1995. Additional awards in future years are anticipated.
 
 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
  In January 1989, the Board of Directors adopted the 1989 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan (the "1989 Plan"). Under the 1989 Plan, eligible employees of
the Company may purchase shares of Common Stock, through payroll deductions,
at the lower of 85% of fair market value of the stock at the time of grant or
85% of fair market value at the time of exercise. A total of 4,900,000 shares
have been reserved for issuance under the 1989 Plan. Shares are granted twice
yearly, on January 1 and July 1, and are exercisable on the succeeding June 30
or December 31. The Company issued 679,177 and 139,598 shares in 1996 and
1995, respectively. The weighted average fair values of options granted at
fair value under the 1989 Plan during 1996 and 1995 were $4.64 and $6.54,
respectively.
 
L. LITIGATION
 
  The Company is a party to litigation which it considers routine and
incidental to its business. Management does not expect the results of any of
these actions to have a material adverse effect on the Company's business or
financial condition.
 
 
                                      40
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
M. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
 Off-Balance-Sheet Risk
 
  The Company enters into forward exchange and foreign currency option
contracts to hedge foreign currency cash flows on a continuing basis for
periods consistent with its committed exposures. The Company does not engage
in currency speculation. The Company's foreign exchange contracts do not
subject the Company to risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and
losses on these contracts offset losses and gains on the underlying
transactions being hedged. The maximum amount of foreign currency contracts
outstanding during 1996 and 1995 was $257,401,000 and $228,750,000,
respectively. At December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995, the Company had
$257,401,000, and $202,031,000 of forward exchange contracts outstanding,
respectively. At December 30, 1995, the Company had $10,000,000 of foreign
currency options outstanding.
 
 Fair Value
 
  The carrying amounts reflected in the consolidated balance sheets for cash
and cash equivalents, investments, accounts receivable, current portion of
long term debt, and accounts payable approximate fair value due to the short
maturities of these instruments.
 
N. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
 
  The Company's future results of operations involve a number of risks and
uncertainties. Factors that could affect the Company's future operating
results and cause actual results to vary materially from expectations include,
but are not limited to, the uneven pattern of quarterly results, competition,
competitive pricing pressures, dependence on suppliers, new products, changes
in regulations, manufacturing risks, reliance on indirect channels of
distribution, strategic relationships, international sales, management of
growth, dependence upon key personnel, enforcement of the Company's
intellectual property rights and future acquisitions.
 
 Concentrations of Credit Risk
 
  Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist principally of temporary cash
investments, long-term investments and trade and notes receivable. The Company
places its temporary cash investments and long-term investments in investment
grade instruments and limits the amount of investment with any one financial
institution. The credit risk associated with trade receivables is minimal due
to the large number of customers and their broad dispersion over many
different industries and geographic areas.
 
  In 1996, Hewlett-Packard Company represented 12.6% of the Company's total
revenues. During 1995 and 1994, no single customer accounted for greater than
10% of the Company's revenues.
 
O. SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
  The Company is active in primarily one business segment: designing,
manufacturing and marketing a wide range of storage-related hardware and
software products and related services. Information by geographic area is
presented below with exports shown in their area of origin. Sales and
marketing operations outside the U.S. are conducted through sales subsidiaries
and branches located principally in Europe and the Asia Pacific region. The
U.S. market amounted to greater than 95% of the Company's sales, income and
identifiable assets in the North/South America segment.
 
                                      41
<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Intercompany transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at prices
which are designed to be representative of unaffiliated party transactions.
 
                                (in thousands)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         EUROPE
                          NORTH/SOUTH MIDDLE EAST,   ASIA                 CONSOLIDATED
                            AMERICA      AFRICA    PACIFIC   ELIMINATIONS    TOTAL
                          ----------- ------------ --------  ------------ ------------
<S>                       <C>         <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>
1996
Sales...................  $1,441,935    $687,350   $144,367   $     --     $2,273,652
Transfers between
 areas..................      72,813     159,605        --     (232,418)          --
                          ----------    --------   --------   ---------    ----------
Total sales.............   1,514,748     846,955    144,367    (232,418)    2,273,652
Income (loss) from
 operations.............     334,547     167,964     (3,851)     (2,119)      496,541
Identifiable assets at
 year end...............   1,749,221     703,929    104,210    (263,814)    2,293,546
1995
Sales...................  $1,230,223    $567,303   $123,749   $     --     $1,921,275
Transfers between
 areas..................     134,073     141,003         10    (275,086)          --
                          ----------    --------   --------   ---------    ----------
Total sales.............   1,364,296     708,306    123,759    (275,086)    1,921,275
Income from operations..     264,168     176,293      1,805      (6,487)      435,779
Identifiable assets at
 year end...............   1,669,928     144,081     77,923    (146,203)    1,745,729
1994
Sales...................  $  871,048    $449,467   $ 56,977   $     --     $1,377,492
Transfers between
 areas..................     123,587      61,577        110    (185,274)          --
                          ----------    --------   --------   ---------    ----------
Total sales.............     994,635     511,044     57,087    (185,274)    1,377,492
Income (loss) from
 operations.............     155,544     196,658        (97)     (1,573)      350,532
Identifiable assets at
 year end...............   1,230,883     171,233     36,437    (121,053)    1,317,500
</TABLE>
 
P. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
                   (in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                            Q1 1996  Q2 1996  Q3 1996  Q4 1996
                                            -------- -------- -------- --------
<S>                                         <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
1996
Net sales, service and rental.............. $521,487 $545,017 $550,754 $656,394
Gross profit...............................  228,323  240,076  244,316  311,987
Net income.................................   84,545   87,054   90,347  124,283
Net income per share, (fully diluted)...... $   0.35 $   0.36 $   0.37 $   0.50
<CAPTION>
                                            Q1 1995  Q2 1995  Q3 1995  Q4 1995
                                            -------- -------- -------- --------
<S>                                         <C>      <C>      <C>      <C>
1995
Net sales, service and rental.............. $448,116 $478,553 $475,460 $519,146
Gross profit...............................  230,008  246,791  235,183  206,417
Net income.................................   85,449   94,111   85,158   62,127
Net income per share, (fully diluted)...... $   0.35 $   0.38 $   0.35 $   0.26
</TABLE>
 
  The first three quarters of 1995 have been restated to reflect the
acquisition of McDATA, accounted for as a pooling of interests.
 
  On September 23, 1996, EMC elected to change its fiscal year end from a
fiscal basis which would have ended on December 28, 1996 to a calendar basis
ending on December 31, 1996. The effect on the Company's results of operations
was not material.
 
                                      42
<PAGE>
 
ITEM 9. DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES
 
  None.
                                   PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The Company will furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission a
definitive Proxy Statement (the "Proxy Statement") not later than 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996. The information
required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the Proxy
Statement. Also see "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this
form.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
the Proxy Statement.
 
                                      43
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a)
 
  1. Financial Statements
 
  The financial statements listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated
  Financial Statements and Schedule on page 47 are filed as part of this
  report.
 
  2. Schedule
 
  The schedule listed in the accompanying Index to Consolidated Financial
  Statements and Schedule on page 47 is filed as part of this report.
 
  3. Exhibits
 
  See Index to Exhibits page 48 of this report.
 
  The exhibits are filed with or incorporated by reference in this report.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
  On October 4, 1996, the registrant filed a report (Date of Report: October
4, 1996) on Form 8-K reporting, under Item 8, a change in its fiscal year end
from December 28, 1996 to December 31, 1996.
 
  On October 10, 1996, the registrant filed a report (Date of Report: October
10, 1996) on Form 8-K reporting, under Item 5, that it was served with civil
investigative demands by the Antitrust Division of the United States
Department of Justice in connection with the Department's investigation into
the agreement dated June 7, 1996 between International Business Machines
Corporation and Storage Technology Corporation. The Justice Department is
gathering evidence to determine whether the IBM/STK Agreement has been, is, or
may be in violation of the federal Sherman Antitrust Act.
 
  On December 12, 1996, the registrant filed a report (Date of Report:
November 25, 1996) on Form 8-K reporting, under Item 5, that on January 1,
1997 it would redeem all of its outstanding 4 1/4% convertible subordinated
notes due 2001. The registrant also reported that its Board of Directors had
rescinded the Company's Common Stock repurchase program due to the Securities
and Exchange Commission's issuance of Staff Accounting Bulletin 96.
 
                                      44
<PAGE>
 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, EMC CORPORATION HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED ON FEBRUARY 27,
1997.
 
                                          EMC CORPORATION
 
                                                    /s/ Richard J. Egan
                                          By: _________________________________
                                                      RICHARD J. EGAN
                                                   CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD
 
                                       45
<PAGE>
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES ON THE DATE INDICATED AS OF FEBRUARY 27, 1997.
 
              SIGNATURE                                  TITLE
 
         /s/ Richard J. Egan                Chairman of the Board (Principal
- -------------------------------------        Executive Officer) and Director
           RICHARD J. EGAN
 
      /s/ Michael C. Ruettgers           President and Chief Executive Officer
- -------------------------------------                 and Director
        MICHAEL C. RUETTGERS
 
        /s/ Colin G. Patteson                 Senior Vice President, Chief
- -------------------------------------     Administrative Officer and Treasurer
          COLIN G. PATTESON                   (Principal Financial Officer)
 
     /s/ William J. Teuber, Jr.            Vice President and Chief Financial
- -------------------------------------    Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)
       WILLIAM J. TEUBER, JR.
 
        /s/ Michael J. Cronin                           Director
- -------------------------------------
          MICHAEL J. CRONIN
 
       /s/ John F. Cunningham                           Director
- -------------------------------------
         JOHN F. CUNNINGHAM
 
          /s/ John R. Egan                              Director
- -------------------------------------
            JOHN R. EGAN
 
         /s/ Maureen E. Egan                            Director
- -------------------------------------
           MAUREEN E. EGAN
 
       /s/ W. Paul Fitzgerald                           Director
- -------------------------------------
         W. PAUL FITZGERALD
 
        /s/ Joseph F. Oliveri                           Director
- -------------------------------------
          JOSEPH F. OLIVERI
 
                                       46
<PAGE>
 
                        EMC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULE
                  COVERED BY REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      FORM 10-K
                                                                      ---------
<S>                                                                   <C>
Report of Independent Accountants....................................   p. 23
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1996 and December 30,
 1995................................................................   p. 24
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31,
 1996, December 30, 1995, and December 31, 1994......................   p. 25
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December
 31, 1996, December 30, 1995, and December 31, 1994..................   p. 26
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
 December 31, 1996, December 30, 1995, and December 31, 1994.........   p. 27
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements........................... pp. 28-42
Schedule:
  Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.....................   p. 49
</TABLE>
 
 
Note: All other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not
      applicable or the required information is included in the financial
      statements or notes thereto.
 
                                       47
<PAGE>
 
  The exhibits listed below are filed with or incorporated by reference in this
report.
 
<TABLE>
   <C>  <S>
    3.1 Articles of Organization of EMC Corporation./1/
    3.2 Articles of Amendment filed February 26, 1986./1/
    3.3 Articles of Amendment filed April 2, 1986./1/
    3.4 Articles of Amendment filed May 13, 1987./2/
    3.5 Articles of Amendment filed June 19, 1992./3/
    3.6 Articles of Amendment filed May 12, 1993./4/
    3.7 Articles of Amendment filed November 12, 1993./5/
    3.8 Articles of Amendment filed May 10, 1995./6/
    3.9 By-laws of EMC Corporation, as amended on July 21, 1995./7/
    4.1 Form of Stock Certificate./8/
   10.1 EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed herewith).
   10.2 EMC Corporation 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended./9/
   10.3 EMC Corporation 1992 Stock Option Plan for Directors, as amended (filed
        herewith).
   10.4 EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan, as amended (filed herewith).
   10.5 McDATA 1990 Class A Stock Option Plan./10/
   10.6 McDATA 1990 Class B Stock Option Plan./10/
   10.7 EMC Corporation Profit-Sharing Plan./1/
   10.7 Mortgage Agreement with and Note Payable to John Hancock Mutual Life
        Insurance Company./1/
   11.1 Computation of net income (loss) per share (filed herewith).
   22.1 Subsidiaries of Registrant (filed herewith).
   23.1 Consent of Independent Accountants dated February 27, 1997 (filed
        herewith).
</TABLE>
- --------
 /1/ Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 (No. 33-3656).
 /2/ Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 (No. 33-17218).
 /3/ Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of EMC Corporation
     filed February 12, 1993.
 /4/ Incorporated herein by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on
     Form S-1 (No. 33-67224).
 /5/ Incorporated herein from Current Report on Form 8-K of EMC Corporation
     filed November 19, 1993.
 /6/ Incorporated herein from Current Report on Form 8-K of EMC Corporation
     filed May 26, 1995.
 /7/ Incorporated herein from Quarterly Report on Form 10-K of EMC Corporation
     filed August 11, 1995.
 /8/ Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of EMC Corporation
     filed March 31, 1988.
 /9/ Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of EMC Corporation
     filed March 29, 1995.
/10/ Incorporated herein from Annual Report on Form 10-K of EMC Corporation
     filed March 26, 1996.
 
                                       48
<PAGE>
 
                        EMC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                 SCHEDULE II--VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                         BALANCE AT CHARGED TO CHARGED TO              BALANCE AT
                         BEGINNING  COSTS AND    OTHER                   END OF
     DESCRIPTION         OF PERIOD   EXPENSES   ACCOUNTS  DEDUCTIONS     PERIOD
     ------------------  ---------- ---------- ---------- -----------  ----------
<S>                      <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>          <C>
Year ended December 31,
 1996
 Allowance for doubtful
 accounts..............  $7,062,000 $1,927,000    --      $(1,621,000) $7,368,000
Year ended December 30,
 1995
 Allowance for doubtful
 accounts..............  $6,272,000 $2,435,000    --      $(1,645,000) $7,062,000
Year ended December 31,
 1994
 Allowance for doubtful
 accounts..............  $5,262,000 $2,223,000    --      $(1,213,000) $6,272,000
</TABLE>
 
                                       49
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>1985 STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.1


                                EMC CORPORATION

              1985 STOCK OPTION PLAN, as amended January 22, 1997

1.  PURPOSE.
    ------- 

    The purpose of the EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan is to enable
EMC Corporation to provide a special incentive to a limited number of key
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who are in a position to
have a significant effect upon the Company's business and earnings.  In order to
accomplish this purpose, the Plan authorizes the grant to such key employees of
options to purchase Common Stock of the Company.  Increased ownership of Common
Stock will provide such key employees with an additional incentive to take into
account the long-term interests of the Company.

2.  DEFINITIONS.
    ----------- 

    As used herein, the following words or terms have the meanings set forth
below. The masculine gender is used throughout the Plan but is intended to apply
to members of both sexes.

    2.1   "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

    2.2   "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time
to time, or any successor statute.

    2.3   "Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors to
administer the Plan or the Board of Directors as a whole if no appointment is
made.

    2.4   "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.

    2.5   "Company" means EMC Corporation, a corporation established under the
laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

    2.6   "Fair Market Value" in the case of a share of Common Stock on a
particular day, means the fair market value as determined from time to time by
the Board of Directors or, where appropriate, by the Committee, taking into
account all information which the Board of Directors, or the Committee,
considers relevant.

    2.7   "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option that satisfies the
requirements of Section 422 of the Code.
<PAGE>
 
    2.8   "Participant" means an individual holding a stock option or stock
options granted to him under the Plan.

    2.9   "Plan" means the EMC Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan set forth
herein.

    2.10  "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" means a corporation or corporations in
which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing 50 percent or
more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock.

    2.11  "Ten Percent Stockholder" means any person who, at the time an option
is granted, owns or is deemed to own stock (as determined in accordance with
Sections 422 and 424 of the Code) possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the
total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or its parent
or a subsidiary.

3.  ADMINISTRATION.
    -------------- 

    3.1   The Plan shall be administered by the Committee and, to the extent
provided herein, the Board of Directors. A majority of the members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all determinations of the Committee
shall be made by a majority of its members. Any determination of the Committee
under the Plan may be made without notice or meeting of the Committee by a
writing signed by a majority of the Committee members.

    3.2   Subject to the provisions set forth herein, each of the Committee
and the Board of Directors shall have full authority to determine the provisions
of options to be granted under the Plan.  Subject to the provisions set forth
herein, the Committee shall have full authority to interpret the terms of the
Plan and of options granted under the Plan, to adopt, amend and rescind rules
and guidelines for the administration of the Plan and for its own acts and
proceedings and to decide all questions and settle all controversies and
disputes which may arise in connection with the Plan; provided, however, that
                                                      --------  -------      
any change to the terms of an option granted hereunder shall be approved by the
Board of Directors to the extent such change would be deemed to be a new option
grant or such terms relate to a subsequent transaction that would not be exempt
from Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the absence of such
approval.

    3.3   The decision of the Committee or the Board of Directors, as
applicable, on any matter as to which the Committee or the Board of Directors,
as applicable, is given authority under subsection 3.2 shall be final and
binding on all persons concerned.

    3.4   Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any officer or employee,
or his legal representatives or assigns, any right to participate in the Plan,
except to such extent, if any, as the Committee or the Board, as applicable, may
have determined or approved pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
4.  SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
    -------------------------- 

    4.1   The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be delivered
upon the exercise of options granted under the Plan shall be 36,000,000, subject
to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.

    4.2   If any option granted under the Plan terminates without having
been exercised in full (including an option which terminates by agreement
between the Company and the Participant), the number of shares of Common Stock
as to which such option has not been exercised prior to termination shall be
available for future grants within the limits set forth in subsection 4.1.

    4.3   Shares of Common Stock delivered upon the exercise of options shall
consist of shares of authorized and unissued Common Stock, except that the Board
of Directors may from time to time in its discretion determine in any case the
shares to be so delivered shall consist of shares of authorized and issued
Common Stock reacquired by the Company and held in its Treasury. No fractional
shares of Common Stock shall be delivered upon the exercise of an option.

5.  ELIGIBILITY FOR OPTIONS.
    ----------------------- 

    Employees eligible to receive options under the Plan shall be those key
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who, in the opinion of
the Committee, are in a position to have a significant effect upon the Company's
business and earnings. Members of the Board of Directors of the Company or a
Subsidiary who are not employed as regular salaried officers or employees of the
Company or a Subsidiary may not participate in the Plan.

6.  GRANT OF OPTIONS.
    ---------------- 

    6.1   From time to time while the Plan is in effect, each of the
Committee and the Board of Directors may, in its absolute discretion, select
from among the persons eligible to receive options (including persons to whom
options were previously granted) those persons to whom options are to be
granted.

    6.2   Each of the Committee and the Board of Directors shall, in its
absolute discretion, determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be
subject to each option granted by it under the Plan.

    6.3   No Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after May
16, 1995, but options theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
7.  PROVISIONS OF OPTIONS.
    --------------------- 

    7.1  Incentive Stock Options or Other Options.  Options granted under
         ----------------------------------------                        
the Plan may be either Incentive Stock Options or options which do not qualify
as Incentive Stock Options, as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall
determine at the time of each grant of options hereunder.

    7.2  Stock Option Certificates or Agreements.  Options granted under
         ---------------------------------------                        
the Plan shall be evidenced by certificates or agreements in such form as the
Committee shall from time to time approve.  Such certificates or agreements
shall comply with the terms and conditions of the Plan and may contain such
other provisions not inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Plan as
the Committee shall deem advisable.  In the case of options intended to qualify
as Incentive Stock Options, the certificates or agreements shall contain such
provisions relating to exercise and other matters as are required of incentive
stock options under the Code.

    7.3   Terms and Conditions.  All options granted under the Plan shall
          --------------------                                           
be subject to the following terms and conditions to the extent applicable and to
such other terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith as the Committee or
the Board of Directors shall determine:

          7.3.1  Exercise Price.  The exercise price per share of Common Stock
                 --------------                                               
    with respect to each option shall be as determined by the Committee but in
    the case of an Incentive Stock Option not less than 100% (110% in the case
    of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) of the
    Fair Market Value per share at the time the option is granted. In the case
    of an option which does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, the
    exercise price per share of Common Stock shall be not less than par value.

          7.3.2  Value of Shares of Common Stock Subject to Incentive Stock
                 ----------------------------------------------------------
    Options.  Each eligible employee may be granted Incentive Stock Options
    -------                                                                
    only to the extent that, in the aggregate under this Plan and all incentive
    stock option plans of the Company and any related corporation, such
    Incentive Stock Options do not become exercisable for the first time by such
    employee during any calendar year in a manner which would entitle the
    employee to purchase more than $100,000 in fair market value (determined at
    the time the Incentive Stock Options were granted) of Common Stock in that
    year. Any options granted to any employee in excess of such amount will be
    granted as Non-Qualified Options.

          7.3.3  Period of Options.  An option shall be exercisable during such
                 -----------------                                             
    period of time as the Committee or the Board of Directors may specify
    (subject to subsection 7.4 below), but in the case of an Incentive Stock
    Option not after the expiration of ten years (five years in the case of an
    Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date
    the option is granted.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
          7.3.4  Exercise of Options.
                 ------------------- 

                 7.3.4.1   Each option shall be made exercisable at such time or
          times as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall determine.  In
          the case of an option made exercisable in installments, the Committee
          or the Board of Directors may later determine to accelerate the time
          at which one or more of such installments may be exercised.

                 7.3.4.2   Any exercise of an option shall be in writing signed
          by the proper person and delivered or mailed to the General Counsel of
          the Company, accompanied by an option exercise notice and payment in
          full for the number of shares in respect to which the option is
          exercised.

                 7.3.4.3   In the event an option is exercised by the executor
          or administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or
          persons to whom the option has been transferred by the Participant's
          will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company
          shall be under no obligation to deliver stock thereunder until the
          Company is satisfied that the person or persons exercising the option
          is or are the duly appointed executor or administrator of the deceased
          Participant or the person or persons to whom the option has been
          transferred by the Participant's will or by the applicable laws of
          descent and distribution.

                 7.3.4.4   The Committee or the Board of Directors may at the
          time of grant condition the exercise of an option upon agreement by
          the Participant to subject the Common Stock to any restrictions on
          transfer or repurchase rights in effect on the date of exercise, upon
          representations of continued employment and upon other terms not
          inconsistent with this Plan. Any such conditions shall be set forth in
          the option certificate or other document evidencing the option.

                 7.3.4.5   In the case of an option that is not an Incentive
          Stock Option, the Committee shall have the right to require that the
          individual exercising the option to remit to the Company an amount
          sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, or local withholding tax
          requirements (or makes other arrangements satisfactory to the Company
          with regard to such taxes) prior to the delivery of any Common Stock
          pursuant to the exercise of the option. In the case of an Incentive
          Stock Option, if at the time the Incentive Stock Option is exercised
          the Committee determines that under applicable law and regulations the
          Company could be liable for the withholding of any federal or state
          tax with respect to a disposition of the Common Stock received upon
          exercise, the Committee may require as a condition of exercise that
          the individual exercising the Incentive Stock 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
          Option agree (i) to inform the Company promptly of any disposition
          (within the meaning of Section 422 (a) (1) of the Code and the
          regulations thereunder) of Common Stock received upon exercise, and
          (ii) to give such security as the Committee deems adequate to meet the
          potential liability of the Company for the withholding of tax, and to
          augment such security from time to time in any amount reasonably
          deemed necessary by the Committee to preserve the adequacy of such
          security.

          7.3.4.6  In the case of an option that is exercised by an individual
          that is subject to taxation in a foreign jurisdiction, the Committee
          shall have the right to require the individual exercising the option
          to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any federal or
          withholding requirement of that foreign jurisdiction (or make other
          arrangements satisfactory to the Company with regard to such taxes
          prior to the delivery of any Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of
          the option).

          7.3.5  Payment for and Delivery of Stock.   The shares of stock
                 ---------------------------------                       
    purchased on any exercise of an option granted hereunder shall be paid for
    in full in cash or, if permitted by the terms of the option, in shares of
    unrestricted Common Stock at the time of such exercise or, if so permitted,
    a combination of such cash and Common Stock. A Participant shall not have
    the rights of a stockholder with respect to awards under the Plan except as
    to stock actually issued to him.

          7.3.6  Listing of Stock, Withholding and Other Legal Requirements.
                 ----------------------------------------------------------   
    The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any stock until all federal
    and state laws and regulations which the Company may deem applicable have
    been complied with, nor, in the event the outstanding Common Stock is at the
    time listed upon any stock exchange, until the stock to be delivered has
    been listed or authorized to be added to the list upon official notice of
    issuance to such exchange. In addition, if the shares of stock subject to
    any option have not been registered in accordance with the Securities Act of
    1933, as amended, the Company may require the person or persons who wishes
    or wish to exercise such option to make such representation or agreement
    with respect to the sale of stock acquired on exercise of the option as will
    be sufficient, in the opinion of the Company's counsel, to avoid violation
    of said Act, and may also require that the certificates evidencing said
    stock bear an appropriate restrictive legend.

          7.3.7  Non-transferability of Options. No option may be transferred by
                 ------------------------------
    the Participant otherwise than by will, by the laws of descent and
    distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and during
    the Participant's lifetime the option may be exercised only by him or her;
    provided, however, that the Board of Directors or the Committee, as
    --------  -------
    applicable, in its discretion, may allow for transferability of non-
    qualified stock options by the Participant to "Immediate Family Members".
    Immediate Family Members means children, grandchildren, spouse or common law
    spouse, siblings or parents of the Participant or to bona
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
    fide trusts, partnerships or other entities controlled by and of which the
    beneficiaries are Immediate Family Members of the Participant. Any option
    grants that are transferable are further conditioned on the Participant and
    Immediate Family Members agreeing to abide by the Company's then current
    stock option transfer guidelines.

          7.3.8  Death.   If a Participant dies at a time when he is entitled
                 -----                                                       
    to exercise an Incentive Stock Option, then at any time or times within
    three years after his death such Incentive Stock Option may be exercised, as
    to all or any of the shares which the Participant was entitled to purchase
    thereunder immediately prior to his death, by his executor or administrator
    or the person or persons to whom the Incentive Stock Option is transferred
    by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, and except as so
    exercised such Incentive Stock Option shall expire at the end of such three-
    year period. In no event, however, may any Incentive Stock Option granted
    under the Plan be exercised after the expiration of ten years (five years in
    the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder)
    from the date the Incentive Stock Option was granted.

          7.3.9  Termination of Employment.   If the employment of a Participant
                 -------------------------                                      
    terminates for any reason other than his death, all options held by the
    Participant shall thereupon expire on the date of termination unless the
    option by its terms, or the Committee or the Board of Directors by
    resolution, shall allow the Participant to exercise any or all of the
    options held by him after termination. In the case of an Incentive Stock
    Option, the Incentive Stock Option shall in any event expire at the end of
    three months after such termination of employment, or after the expiration
    of ten years (five years in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to
    a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date the Incentive Stock Option was
    granted, whichever occurs first. If the Committee or the Board of Directors
    so decides, an option may provide that a leave of absence granted by the
    Company or Subsidiary is not a termination of employment for the purpose of
    this subsection 7.3.9, and in the absence of such a provision the Committee
    may in any particular case determine that such a leave of absence is not a
    termination of employment for such purpose. The Committee shall also
    determine all other matters relating to continuous employment.

    7.4  Authority of the Committee.   The Committee shall have the authority,
          --------------------------                                           
either generally or in particular instances, to waive compliance by a
Participant with any obligation to be performed by him under an option and to
waive any condition or provision of an option, except that the Committee may not
(i) increase the total number of shares covered by any Incentive Stock Option
(except in accordance with Section 8), (ii) reduce the option price per share of
any Incentive Stock Option (except in accordance with Section 8) or (iii) extend
the term of any Incentive Stock Option to more than ten years, subject, however,
to the provisions of Section 10.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
8.  CHANGES IN STOCK.
    ---------------- 

    In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate
structure or capitalization affecting the Common Stock that becomes effective
after the adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors, the Committee shall
make appropriate adjustments in (i) the number and kind of shares of stock on
which options may thereafter be granted hereunder, (ii) the number and kind of
shares of stock remaining subject to each option outstanding at the time of such
change and (iii) the option price.  The Committee's determination shall be
binding on all persons concerned.  Subject to any required action by the
stockholders, if the Company shall be the surviving corporation in any merger or
consolidation (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company
survives but in which a majority of its outstanding shares are converted into
securities of another corporation or are exchanged for other consideration), any
option granted hereunder shall pertain and apply to the securities which a
holder of the number of shares of stock of the Company then subject to the
option would have been entitled to receive, but a dissolution or liquidation of
the Company or a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the
surviving corporation or in which a majority of its outstanding shares are so
converted or exchanged shall cause every option hereunder to terminate; provided
that if any such dissolution, liquidation, merger or consolidation is
contemplated, the Company shall either arrange for any corporation succeeding to
the business and assets of the Company to issue to the Participants replacement
options (which, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, satisfy, in the
determination of the Committee, the requirements of Section 424 of the Code) on
such corporation's stock which will to the extent possible preserve the value of
the outstanding options or shall make the outstanding options fully exercisable
at least 20 days before the effective date of any such dissolution, liquidation,
merger or consolidation.  The existence of the Plan shall not prevent any such
change or other transaction and no Participant thereunder shall have any right
except as herein expressly set forth.

9.  EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.
    ----------------- 

    Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any grant of options confers upon any
employee of the Company or a Subsidiary any right to continued employment with
the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, nor does it interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of
any of its employees at any time.

10. DISCONTINUANCE, CANCELLATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.
    ------------------------------------------------------- 

    The Committee or the Board of Directors may at any time discontinue
granting options under the Plan and, with the consent of the Participant, may at
any time cancel an existing option in whole or in part and grant another option
to the Participant for such number of shares as the Committee or the Board of
Directors specifies.  The Board of Directors may at any time or times amend the
Plan for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of any changes in applicable
laws or regulations or for any other purpose 

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
which may at the time be permitted by law or may at any time terminate the Plan
as to any further grants of options, provided that no such amendment shall
without the approval of the stockholders of the Company (a) increase the maximum
number of shares available under the Plan, (b) change the group of employees
eligible to receive options under the Plan, (c) reduce the exercise price of
outstanding incentive options or reduce the price at which incentive options may
be granted, (d) extend the time within which options may be granted, (e) alter
the Plan in such a way that incentive options granted or to be granted hereunder
would not be considered incentive stock options under Section 422 of the Code,
or (f) amend the provisions of this Section 10, and no such amendment shall
adversely affect the rights of any employee (without his consent) under any
option previously granted.

11. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    -------------- 

    The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board of
Directors, and options may be granted under the Plan from and after the date of
such adoption; provided, however, that if prior to  May 16, 1986 the
stockholders of the Company have not approved the Plan, the Plan shall terminate
to the extent that it relates to the issuance of Incentive Stock Options and all
Incentive Stock Options theretofore granted shall terminate and cease to be of
any force or effect. No Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall be
exercisable unless and until the Plan has been so approved.

                                       9
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.3
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>1992 STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.3


                                EMC CORPORATION

             1992 EMC CORPORATION STOCK OPTION PLAN FOR DIRECTORS,
                          as amended January 22, 1997

1. PURPOSE

   The purpose of this 1992 Stock Option Plan for Directors (the "Plan") is to
advance the interests of EMC Corporation (the "Company") by enhancing the
ability of the Company to attract and retain directors who are in a position to
make significant contributions to the success of the Company and to reward
directors for such contributions through ownership of shares of the Company's
Common Stock (the "Stock").


2. ADMINISTRATION

   The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the
Company and the Executive Compensation and Stock Option Committee (the
"Committee") of the Board, as set forth herein. The Board and the Committee
shall each have authority, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the
Plan to grant options in accordance with the Plan to such directors as are
eligible to receive options.  The Committee shall in addition have authority,
not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, (a) to prescribe the
form or forms of instruments evidencing options and any other instruments
required under the Plan and to change such forms from time to time; (b) to
adopt, amend and rescind rules and regulations for the administration of the
Plan; and (c) to interpret the Plan and decide any questions and settle all
controversies and disputes that may arise in connection with the Plan. Such
determinations of the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, shall be
conclusive and shall bind all parties. Subject to Section 7, the Committee shall
also have the authority, both generally and in particular instances, to waive
compliance by a director with any obligation to be performed by him or her under
an option and to waive any condition or provision of an option.
Nothwithstanding the preceding two sentences, any change to the terms of an
option granted hereunder shall be approved by the Board to the extent such
change would be deemed to be a new option grant or such terms relate to a
subsequent transaction that would not be exempt from Section 16(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the absence of such approval.


3. EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF PLAN

   The Plan shall become effective on the date on which the Plan is approved by
the stockholders of the Company. No option shall be granted under the Plan after
the 

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
completion of ten years from the date on which the Plan was adopted by the
Board, but options granted may extend beyond that date.


4. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

   (a) Number of Shares.  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4(c), the
aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be delivered upon the exercise of
options granted under the Plan shall be 1,800,000. If any option granted under
the Plan terminates without having been exercised in full, the number of shares
of Stock as to which such option was not exercised shall be available for future
grants within the limits set forth in this Section 4(a).

   (b) Shares to be Delivered.   Shares delivered under the Plan shall be
authorized but unissued Stock or, if the Board so decides in its sole
discretion, previously issued Stock acquired by the Company and held in
treasury. No fractional shares of Stock shall be delivered under the Plan.

   (c) Changes in Stock.   In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or
other change in corporate structure or capitalization affecting the Stock, the
number and kind of shares of stock or securities of the Company to be subject to
options then outstanding or to be granted under the Plan, and the option price,
and other relevant provisions shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee,
whose determination shall be binding on all persons.


5. ELIGIBILITY FOR OPTIONS

   Directors eligible to receive options under the Plan ("Eligible Directors")
shall be those directors who (i) are not employees of the Company; and (ii) are
not holders of more than 5% of the outstanding shares of the Stock or persons in
control of such holders.


6. TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF OPTIONS

   (a) Formula Options.   Eligible Directors who are directors on the date of
stockholder approval of the Plan shall be awarded options to purchase up to
40,000 shares of Stock. Following stockholder approval of the plan, each newly
elected Eligible Director shall be awarded options to purchase up to 40,000
shares of Stock on the date of his or her first election.

   (b) Discretionary Options.   In addition to the formula options provided for
above, the Committee or the Board may award options to purchase shares of Stock
to Eligible Directors on such terms as it may determine not inconsistent with
this Plan.


                                       2
<PAGE>
 
   (c) Exercise Price.   The exercise price of each option shall be not less
than 50% of the fair market value per share of the Stock at the time of the
grant. For this purpose "fair market value" shall mean the last sales price of
the Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of the grant
(based on The Wall Street Journal report of composite transactions) or, if the
Stock is no longer listed on such Exchange, it shall have the same meaning as it
does in the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code") and the
regulations thereunder applicable to incentive options.

   (d) Duration of Options.   The latest date on which an option may be
exercised (the "Final Exercise Date") shall be the date which is ten years from
the date the option was granted.

   (e) Exercise of Options.

   (1) Each formula option shall become exercisable in increments of 33 1/3% of
the shares covered thereby on each of the first through third anniversaries of
the grant. Each discretionary option shall become exercisable at such time or
times as the Committee or the Board shall determine.

   (2) Any exercise of an option shall be in writing, signed by the proper
person and delivered or mailed to the Company, accompanied by (a) an option
exercise notice and any other documents required by the Committee; and (b)
payment in full for the number of shares for which the option is exercised.

   (3) If any option is exercised by the executor or administrator of a deceased
director, or by the person or persons to whom the option has been transferred by
the director's will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution, the
Company shall be under no obligation to deliver Stock pursuant to such exercise
until the Company is satisfied as to the authority of the person or persons
exercising the option.

   (4) The Company shall have the right to settle any option, and to terminate
the rights of the holder thereof, by paying to the option holder the difference
between the fair market value of the Stock at the time of settlement and the
purchase price.

   (f) Payment for and Delivery of Stock.   Stock purchased under the Plan shall
be paid for as follows: (i) in cash or by certified check, bank draft or money
order payable to the order of the Company; (ii) through the delivery of shares
of Stock having a fair market value on the last business day preceding the date
of exercise equal to the purchase price; or (iii) by a combination of cash and
Stock as provided in clauses (i) and (ii) above.

   An option holder shall not have the rights of a stockholder with regard to
awards under the Plan except as to Stock actually received by him or her under
the Plan.

   The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Stock (a) until,
in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all applicable Federal and state laws
and regulations 

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
have been complied with; and (b) if the outstanding Stock is at the time listed
on any stock exchange, until the shares to be delivered have been listed or
authorized to be listed on such exchange upon official notice of issuance; and
(c) until all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery
of such shares have been approved by the Company's counsel. If the sale of Stock
has not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the
Company may require, as a condition to exercise of the option, such
representations or agreements as counsel for the Company may consider
appropriate to avoid violation of such Act and may require that the certificates
evidencing such Stock bear an appropriate legend restricting transfer.

   (g) Nontransferability of Options/Exceptions.  No option may be transferred
by a director otherwise than by will, by the laws of descent and distribution or
pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and during the director's
lifetime the option may be exercised only by him or her; provided, however, that
                                                         --------  -------      
the Board of Directors or the Committee, as applicable, in its discretion, may
allow for transferability of options by the Participant to "Immediate Family
Members." Immediate Family Members means children, grandchildren, spouse or
common law spouse, siblings or parents of the Participant or to bona fide
trusts, partnerships or other entities controlled by and of which the
beneficiaries are Immediate Family Members of the Participant.  Any option
grants that are transferable are further conditioned on the Participant and
Immediate Family Members agreeing to abide by the Company's then current stock
option transfer guidelines.

   (h) Death.   If a director dies at the time he or she is entitled to exercise
an option, then the portion formerly exercisable by the director may be
exercised by the director's executor or administrator, or by the person to whom
the option is transferred under the applicable laws of descent and distribution,
within three years of the death of the director, subject to earlier termination
of an option pursuant to Section 6(c).

   (i) Other Termination of Status of Director.   All previously unexercised
options terminate and are forfeited automatically upon the termination of the
director's service with the Company, unless the Committee or the Board of
Directors specifies otherwise.

   (j) Mergers, etc.   In the event of a dissolution, liquidation, consolidation
or merger in which the Company is not the surviving corporation, or which
results in the acquisition of substantially all of the Company's stock by a
single person or entity or by a group of persons and entities acting in concert
all outstanding options will thereupon terminate, provided at least twenty days
prior to the effective date of any such dissolution, liquidation, consolidation
or merger, the Committee or the Board may either (i) make all outstanding
options immediately exercisable or (ii) arrange to have the surviving
corporation grant replacement options for the option holders.


                                       4
<PAGE>
 
7. EFFECT, DISCONTINUANCE, CANCELLATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION

   Neither adoption of the Plan nor the grant of options to a director shall
affect the Company's right to grant to such director or any director options
that are not subject to the Plan, to issue to such directors Stock as a bonus or
otherwise, or to adopt other plans or arrangements under which Stock may be
issued to directors.

   The Committee or the Board may at any time discontinue granting options under
the Plan. The Board may at any time, or times, amend the Plan for the purpose of
satisfying any changes in applicable laws or regulations or for any other
purpose which may at the time be permitted by law, or may at any time terminate
the Plan as to any further grants of options, provided that (except to the
extent expressly required or permitted herein above) no such amendment shall,
without the approval of the stockholders of the Company, (a) increase the
maximum number of shares available under the Plan; (b) increase the number of
options to be granted to Eligible Directors; (c) amend the definition of
Eligible Directors so as to enlarge the group of directors eligible to receive
options under the Plan; (d) reduce the price at which options may be granted
other than as permitted in the Plan; or (e) amend the provisions of this 
Section 7.



                                       5
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.4
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.4

                                EMC CORPORATION

              1993 STOCK OPTION PLAN, as amended January 22, 1997

1.  PURPOSE.
    ------- 

    The purpose of the EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan is to enable EMC
Corporation to provide a special incentive to a limited number of key employees
of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who are in a position to have a
significant effect upon the Company's business and earnings.  In order to
accomplish this purpose, the Plan authorizes the grant to such key employees of
options to purchase Common Stock of the Company.  Increased ownership of Common
Stock will provide such key employees with an additional incentive to take into
account the long-term interests of the Company.

2.  DEFINITIONS.
    ----------- 

    As used herein, the following words or terms have the meanings set forth
below.  The masculine gender is used throughout the Plan but is intended to
apply to members of both sexes.

    2.1  "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.

    2.2  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to
time, or any successor statute.

    2.3  "Committee" means the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors to
administer the Plan or the Board of Directors as a whole if no appointment is
made.

    2.4  "Common Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.

    2.5  "Company" means EMC Corporation, a corporation established under the
laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

    2.6  "Fair Market Value" in the case of a share of Common Stock on a
particular day, means the fair market value as determined from time to time by
the Board of Directors or, where appropriate, by the Committee, taking into
account all information which the Board of Directors, or the Committee,
considers relevant.

    2.7  "Incentive Stock Option" means a stock option that satisfies the
requirements of Section 422 of the Code.

    2.8  "Participant" means an individual holding a stock option or stock
options granted to him under the Plan.

                                       1
<PAGE>
 
    2.9  "Plan" means the EMC Corporation 1993 Stock Option Plan set forth
herein.

    2.10 "Subsidiary" or "Subsidiaries" means a corporation or corporations
in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing 50 percent
or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock.

    2.11 "Ten Percent Stockholder" means any person who, at the time an
option is granted, owns or is deemed to own stock (as determined in accordance
with Sections 422 and 424 of the Code) possessing more than ten percent (10%) of
the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company or its
parent or a subsidiary.

3.  ADMINISTRATION.
    -------------- 

    3.1  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee and, to the extent
provided herein, the Board of Directors.  A majority of the members of the
Committee shall constitute a quorum, and all determinations of the Committee
shall be made by a majority of its members.  Any determination of the Committee
under the Plan may be made without notice or meeting of the Committee by a
writing signed by a majority of the Committee members.

    3.2  Subject to the provisions set forth herein, each of the Committee and
the Board of Directors shall have full authority to determine the provisions of
options to be granted under the Plan. Subject to the provisions set forth
herein, the Committee shall have full authority to interpret the terms of the
Plan and of options granted under the Plan, to adopt, amend and rescind rules
and guidelines for the administration of the Plan and for its own acts and
proceedings and to decide all questions and settle all controversies and
disputes which may arise in connection with the Plan; provided, however, that
                                                      --------  -------      
any change to the terms of an option granted hereunder shall be approved by the
Board of Directors to the extent such change would be deemed to be a new option
grant or such terms relate to a subsequent transaction that would not be exempt
from Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in the absence of such
approval.


    3.3  The decision of the Committee or the Board of Directors, as applicable,
on any matter as to which the Committee or the Board of Directors, as
applicable, is given authority under subsection 3.2 shall be final and binding
on all persons concerned.

    3.4  Nothing in the Plan shall be deemed to give any officer or employee, or
his legal representatives or assigns, any right to participate in the Plan,
except to such extent, if any, as the Committee or the Board, as applicable, may
have determined or approved pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
4.  SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
    -------------------------- 

    4.1  The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be delivered upon
the exercise of options granted under the Plan shall be 14,000,000/*/, subject
to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.

    4.2  If any option granted under the Plan terminates without having been
exercised in full (including an option which terminates by agreement between the
Company and the Participant), the number of shares of Common Stock as to which
such option has not been exercised prior to termination shall be available for
future grants within the limits set forth in subsection 4.1.

    4.3  Shares of Common Stock delivered upon the exercise of options shall
consist of shares of authorized and unissued Common Stock, except that the Board
of Directors may from time to time in its discretion determine in any case the
shares to be so delivered shall consist of shares of authorized and issued
Common Stock reacquired by the Company and held in its Treasury.  No fractional
shares of Common Stock shall be delivered upon the exercise of an option.

5.  ELIGIBILITY FOR OPTIONS.
    ----------------------- 

    Employees eligible to receive options under the Plan shall be those key
employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries, if any, who, in the opinion of
the Committee, are in a position to have a significant effect upon the Company's
business and earnings.  Members of the Board of Directors of the Company or a
Subsidiary who are not employed as regular salaried officers or employees of the
Company or a Subsidiary may not participate in the Plan.

6.  GRANT OF OPTIONS.
    ---------------- 

    6.1  From time to time while the Plan is in effect, each of the Committee
and the Board of Directors may, in its absolute discretion, select from among
the persons eligible to receive options (including persons to whom options were
previously granted) those persons to whom options are to be granted.

    6.2  Each of the Committee and the Board of Directors shall, in its absolute
discretion, determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be subject to each
option granted by it under the Plan.

    6.3  No Incentive Stock Option may be granted under the Plan after May 12,
2003, but options theretofore granted may extend beyond that date.



- ---------------------------------------------
/*/ Subject to stockholder approval.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
7.  PROVISIONS OF OPTIONS.
    --------------------- 

    7.1  Incentive Stock Options or Other Options. Options granted under the
         ----------------------------------------  
Plan may be either Incentive Stock Options or options which do not qualify as
Incentive Stock Options, as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall
determine at the time of each grant of options hereunder.

    7.2  Stock Option Certificates or Agreements. Options granted under the Plan
         ---------------------------------------       
shall be evidenced by certificates or agreements in such form as the Committee
shall from time to time approve. Such certificates or agreements shall comply
with the terms and conditions of the Plan and may contain such other provisions
not inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Plan as the Committee
shall deem advisable. In the case of options intended to qualify as Incentive
Stock Options, the certificates or agreements shall contain such provisions
relating to exercise and other matters as are required of incentive stock
options under the Code.

    7.3  Terms and Conditions.  All options granted under the Plan shall be
         --------------------                                              
subject to the following terms and conditions to the extent applicable and to
such other terms and conditions not inconsistent therewith as the Committee or
the Board of Directors shall determine:

         7.3.1  Exercise Price.  The exercise price per share of Common Stock
                --------------                                               
    with respect to each option shall be as determined by the Committee but in
    the case of an Incentive Stock Option not less than 100% (110% in the case
    of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) of the
    Fair Market Value per share at the time the option is granted. In the case
    of an option which does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option, the
    exercise price per share of Common Stock shall be not less than par value.

         7.3.2  Value of Shares of Common Stock Subject to Incentive Stock
                ----------------------------------------------------------
    Options.  Each eligible employee may be granted Incentive Stock Options
    -------                                                                
    only to the extent that, in the aggregate under this Plan and all incentive
    stock option plans of the Company and any related corporation, such
    Incentive Stock Options do not become exercisable for the first time by such
    employee during any calendar year in a manner which would entitle the
    employee to purchase more than $100,000 in fair market value (determined at
    the time the Incentive Stock Options were granted) of Common Stock in that
    year. Any options granted to an employee in excess of such amount will be
    granted as Non-Qualified Options.

         7.3.3  Period of Options.  An option shall be exercisable during such
                -----------------                                             
    period of time as the Committee or Board of Directors may specify (subject
    to subsection 7.4 below), but in the case of an Incentive Stock Option not
    after the expiration of ten years (five years in the case of an Incentive
    Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date the option
    is granted.

                                       4
<PAGE>
 
         7.3.4  Exercise of Options.
                ------------------- 

                7.3.4.1   Each option shall be made exercisable at such time or
         times as the Committee or the Board of Directors shall determine. In
         the case of an option made exercisable in installments, the Committee
         or the Board of Directors may later determine to accelerate the time at
         which one or more of such installments may be exercised.

                7.3.4.2   Any exercise of an option shall be in writing signed
         by the proper person and delivered or mailed to the General Counsel of
         the Company, accompanied by an option exercise notice and payment in
         full for the number of shares in respect to which the option is
         exercised.

                7.3.4.3   In the event an option is exercised by the executor or
         administrator of a deceased Participant, or by the person or persons to
         whom the option has been transferred by the Participant's will or the
         applicable laws of descent and distribution, the Company shall be under
         no obligation to deliver stock thereunder until the Company is
         satisfied that the person or persons exercising the option is or are
         the duly appointed executor or administrator of the deceased
         Participant or the person or persons to whom the option has been
         transferred by the Participant's will or by the applicable laws of
         descent and distribution.

                7.3.4.4   The Committee or the Board of Directors may at the
         time of grant condition the exercise of an option upon agreement by the
         Participant to subject the Common Stock to any restrictions on transfer
         or repurchase rights in effect on the date of exercise, upon
         representations of continued employment and upon other terms not
         inconsistent with this Plan. Any such conditions shall be set forth in
         the option certificate or other document evidencing the option.

                7.3.4.5   In the case of an option that is not an Incentive
         Stock Option, the Committee shall have the right to require that the
         individual exercising the option to remit to the Company an amount
         sufficient to satisfy any federal, state, or local withholding tax
         requirements (or makes other arrangements satisfactory to the Company
         with regard to such taxes) prior to the delivery of any Common Stock
         pursuant to the exercise of the option. In the case of an Incentive
         Stock Option, if at the time the Incentive Stock Option is exercised
         the Committee determines that under applicable law and regulations the
         Company could be liable for the withholding of any federal or state tax
         with respect to a disposition of the Common Stock received upon
         exercise, the Committee may require as a condition of exercise that the
         individual exercising the Incentive Stock Option agree (i) to inform
         the Company promptly of any disposition 

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
         (within the meaning of Section
         422 (a) (1) of the Code and the regulations thereunder) of Common Stock
         received upon exercise, and (ii) to give such security as the Committee
         deems adequate to meet the potential liability of the Company for the
         withholding of tax, and to augment such security from time to time in
         any amount reasonably deemed necessary by the Committee to preserve the
         adequacy of such security.

                7.3.4.6  In the case of an option that is exercised by an
         individual that is subject to taxation in a foreign jurisdiction, the
         Committee shall have the right to require the individual exercising the
         option to remit to the Company an amount sufficient to satisfy any
         federal or withholding requirement of that foreign jurisdiction (or
         make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company with regard to such
         taxes prior to the delivery of any Common Stock pursuant to the
         exercise of the option).

         7.3.5  Payment for and Delivery of Stock.   The shares of stock
                ---------------------------------                       
     purchased on any exercise of an option granted hereunder shall be paid for
     in full in cash or, if permitted by the terms of the option, in shares of
     unrestricted Common Stock at the time of such exercise or, if so permitted,
     a combination of such cash and Common Stock.  A Participant shall not have
     the rights of a stockholder with respect to awards under the Plan except as
     to stock actually issued to him.

         7.3.6  Listing of Stock, Withholding and Other Legal Requirements.
                ----------------------------------------------------------   
     The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any stock until all federal
     and state laws and regulations which the Company may deem applicable have
     been complied with, nor, in the event the outstanding Common Stock is at
     the time listed upon any stock exchange, until the stock to be delivered
     has been listed or authorized to be added to the list upon official notice
     of issuance to such exchange.  In addition, if the shares of stock subject
     to any option have not been registered in accordance with the Securities
     Act of 1933, as amended, the Company may require the person or persons who
     wishes or wish to exercise such option to make such representation or
     agreement with respect to the sale of stock acquired on exercise of the
     option as will be sufficient, in the opinion of the Company's counsel, to
     avoid violation of said Act, and may also require that the certificates
     evidencing said stock bear an appropriate restrictive legend.

         7.3.7  Non-transferability of Options.   No option may be transferred 
                ------------------------------                      
     by the Participant otherwise than by will, by the laws of descent and
     distribution or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, and
     during the Participant's lifetime the option may be exercised only by him
     or her; provided, however, that the Board of Directors or the Committee, as
             --------  -------                                                  
     applicable, in its discretion, may allow for transferability of non-
     qualified stock options by the Participant to "Immediate Family Members."
     Immediate Family Members means children, grandchildren, spouse or common
     law spouse, siblings or parents of the Participant or to bona fide trusts,
     partnerships or other entities controlled by and of which the 

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
     beneficiaries are Immediate Family Members of the Participant. Any option
     grants that are transferable are further conditioned on the Participant and
     Immediate Family Members agreeing to abide by the Company's then current
     stock option transfer guidelines.

         7.3.8   Death.   If a Participant dies at a time when he is entitled
                 -----                                                       
     to exercise an Incentive Stock Option, then at any time or times within
     three years after his death such Incentive Stock Option may be exercised,
     as to all or any of the shares which the Participant was entitled to
     purchase thereunder immediately prior to his death, by his executor or
     administrator or the person or persons to whom the Incentive Stock Option
     is transferred by will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution,
     and except as so exercised such Incentive Stock Option shall expire at the
     end of such three-year period.  In no event, however, may any Incentive
     Stock Option granted under the Plan be exercised after the expiration of
     ten years (five years in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a
     Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date the Incentive Stock Option was
     granted.

         7.3.9  Termination of Employment.   If the employment of a Participant
                -------------------------                                      
     terminates for any reason other than his death, all options held by the
     Participant shall thereupon expire on the date of termination unless the
     option by its terms, or the Committee or the Board of Directors by
     resolution, shall allow the Participant to exercise any or all of the
     options held by him after termination.  In the case of an Incentive Stock
     Option, the Incentive Stock Option shall in any event expire at the end of
     three months after such termination of employment, or after the expiration
     of ten years (five years in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted
     to a Ten Percent Stockholder) from the date the Incentive Stock Option was
     granted, whichever occurs first.  If the Committee or the Board of
     Directors so decides, an option may  provide that a leave of absence
     granted by the Company or Subsidiary is not a termination of employment for
     the purpose of this subsection 7.3.9, and in the absence of such a
     provision the Committee may in any particular case determine that such a
     leave of absence is not a termination of employment for such purpose. The
     Committee shall also determine all other matters relating to continuous
     employment.

     7.4  Authority of the Committee.   The Committee shall have the authority,
          --------------------------                                           
either generally or in particular instances, to waive compliance by a
Participant with any obligation to be performed by him under an option and to
waive any condition or provision of an option, except that the Committee may not
(i) increase the total number of shares covered by any Incentive Stock Option
(except in accordance with Section 8), (ii) reduce the option price per share of
any Incentive Stock Option (except in accordance with Section 8) or (iii) extend
the term of any Incentive Stock Option to more than ten years, subject, however,
to the provisions of Section 10.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
8.   CHANGES IN STOCK.
     ---------------- 

     In the event of a stock dividend, stock split or other change in corporate
structure or capitalization affecting the Common Stock that becomes effective
after the adoption of the Plan by the Board of Directors, the Committee shall
make appropriate adjustments in (i) the number and kind of shares of stock on
which options may thereafter be granted hereunder, (ii) the number and kind of
shares of stock remaining subject to each option outstanding at the time of such
change and (iii) the option price.  The Committee's determination shall be
binding on all persons concerned.  Subject to any required action by the
stockholders, if the Company shall be the surviving corporation in any merger or
consolidation (other than a merger or consolidation in which the Company
survives but in which a majority of its outstanding shares are converted into
securities of another corporation or are exchanged for other consideration), any
option granted hereunder shall pertain and apply to the securities which a
holder of the number of shares of stock of the Company then subject to the
option would have been entitled to receive, but a dissolution or liquidation of
the Company or a merger or consolidation in which the Company is not the
surviving corporation or in which a majority of its outstanding shares are so
converted or exchanged shall cause every option hereunder to terminate; provided
that if any such dissolution, liquidation, merger or consolidation is
contemplated, the Company shall either arrange for any corporation succeeding to
the business and assets of the Company to issue to the Participants replacement
options (which, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, satisfy, in the
determination of the Committee, the requirements of Section 424 of the Code) on
such corporation's stock which will to the extent possible preserve the value of
the outstanding options or shall make the outstanding options fully exercisable
at least 20 days before the effective date of any such dissolution, liquidation,
merger or consolidation.  The existence of the Plan shall not prevent any such
change or other transaction and no Participant thereunder shall have any right
except as herein expressly set forth.

9.   EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS.
     ----------------- 

     Neither the adoption of the Plan nor any grant of options confers upon any
employee of the Company or a Subsidiary any right to continued employment with
the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, nor does it interfere in any
way with the right of the Company or a Subsidiary to terminate the employment of
any of its employees at any time.

10.  DISCONTINUANCE, CANCELLATION, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION.
     ------------------------------------------------------- 

     The Committee or the Board of Directors may at any time discontinue
granting options under the Plan and, with the consent of the Participant, may at
any time cancel an existing option in whole or in part and grant another option
to the Participant for such number of shares as the Committee or the Board of
Directors specifies.  The Board of Directors may at any time or times amend the
Plan for the purpose of satisfying the 

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
requirements of any changes in applicable laws or regulations or for any other
purpose which may at the time be permitted by law or may at any time terminate
the Plan as to any further grants of options, provided that no such amendment
shall without the approval of the stockholders of the Company (a) increase the
maximum number of shares available under the Plan, (b) change the group of
employees eligible to receive options under the Plan, (c) reduce the exercise
price of outstanding incentive options or reduce the price at which incentive
options may be granted, (d) extend the time within which options may be granted,
(e) alter the Plan in such a way that incentive options granted or to be granted
hereunder would not be considered incentive stock options under Section 422 of
the Code, or (f) amend the provisions of this Section 10, and no such amendment
shall adversely affect the rights of any employee (without his consent) under
any option previously granted.

11.  EFFECTIVE DATE.
     -------------- 

     The Plan became effective immediately upon its approval by the stockholders
of the Company at the Annual Meeting on May 12, 1993.

                                       9
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11.1
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                EMC CORPORATION
 
EXHIBIT 11.1 COMPUTATION OF PRIMARY AND FULLY DILUTED NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                             1996         1995         1994
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                       <C>          <C>          <C>
PRIMARY
Net income (in thousands)...............     $386,229     $326,845     $250,668
Add back interest expense on convertible
 notes..................................        8,827        9,758        9,730
Less tax effect on interest expense on
 convertible notes......................       (3,531)      (3,903)      (3,892)
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Net income for purpose of calculating
 primary net income per share...........     $391,525     $332,700     $256,506
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Weighted average shares outstanding
 during the period......................  236,153,731  225,314,314  193,969,252
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Common equivalent shares................   13,141,480   20,071,895   24,076,414
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Common and common equivalent shares
 outstanding for purpose of calculating
 primary net income per share...........  249,295,211  245,386,209  218,045,666
                                          ===========  ===========  ===========
Primary net income per share (Note B)...        $1.57        $1.36        $1.18
FULLY DILUTED
Net income (in thousands)...............     $386,229     $326,845     $250,668
Add back interest expense on convertible
 debentures and notes...................        8,827       10,374       12,700
Less tax effect on interest expense on
 convertible debentures and notes.......       (3,531)      (4,150)      (5,080)
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Net income for purpose of calculating
 fully diluted net income per share.....     $391,525     $333,069     $258,288
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Common and common equivalent shares
 outstanding for purpose of calculating
 primary net income per share...........  249,295,211  245,386,209  218,045,666
Incremental shares to reflect full
 dilution...............................    2,136,132    2,909,934   16,208,974
                                          -----------  -----------  -----------
Total shares for purpose of calculating
 fully diluted net income per share.....  251,431,343  248,296,143  234,254,640
                                          ===========  ===========  ===========
Fully diluted net income per share (Note
 B).....................................        $1.56        $1.34        $1.10
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-22.1
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDARIES OF REGISTRANT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                   EXHIBIT 22.1--SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT
 
  The following is a list of the Corporation's consolidated subsidiaries as of
January 31, 1997. The Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of the
voting securities of each subsidiary, unless noted otherwise and except for
director's qualifying shares.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 STATE OR
                                                              JURISDICTION OF
NAME                                                           ORGANIZATION
- ----                                                        -------------------
<S>                                                         <C>
EMC Asset Acquisition Corporation.......................... Delaware
EMC (Benelux) B.V. ........................................ The Netherlands
EMC Computer Storage Systems (Israel) Ltd. ................ Israel
EMC Computer Storage Systems (Sales and Services) Ltd. .... Israel
EMC Computer Systems AG.................................... Switzerland
EMC Computer Systems (Benelux) B.V. ....................... The Netherlands
EMC Computer Systems California, Inc. ..................... Delaware
EMC Computer Systems (F.E.) Limited........................ Hong Kong
EMC Computer Systems France S.A. .......................... France
EMC Computer Systems Italy SPA............................. Italy
EMC Computer Systems (S.A.) Pty. Ltd. ..................... South Africa
EMC Computer Systems (South Asia) Pte. Ltd. ............... Singapore
EMC Computer Systems (U.K.) Limited........................ United Kingdom
EMC Computer-Systems AS.................................... Norway
EMC Computer-Systems A/S................................... Denmark
EMC Computer-Systems Brazil Ltda. ......................... Brazil
EMC Computer-Systems Deutschland GMBH...................... Germany
EMC Computer-Systems Ireland Limited....................... Ireland
EMC Computer-Systems OY.................................... Finland
EMC Computer-Systems Svenska AB............................ Sweden
EMC Foreign Sales Corporation (F.S.C.)..................... Barbados
EMC International Holdings, Inc. .......................... Delaware
EMC Japan K.K.*............................................ Japan
EMC Securities Corporation................................. Massachusetts
EMC System Peripherals Canada, Inc. ....................... Canada
Epoch, Inc. ............................................... Delaware
Hankook EMC Computer Systems Chusik Hoesa.................. South Korea
McDATA Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. ............................. Singapore
McDATA Corporation......................................... Delaware
McDATA Europa GmbH......................................... Germany
McDATA International, Inc. ................................ U.S. Virgin Islands
McDATA UK Limited.......................................... United Kingdom
</TABLE>
- --------
* 95% owned by EMC Corporation, the remainder owned by CLC Corporation.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.1
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
               EXHIBIT 23.1-- CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements
of EMC Corporation on Form S-8 (File Nos. 33-71262, 33-71598, 33-63665, 333-
1375 and 333-5133) of our report dated January 23, 1997, on our audits of the
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of EMC
Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and December 30, 1995 and for the years
ended December 31, 1996, December 30, 1995, and December 31, 1994, which
report is included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
                                          Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
 
Boston, Massachusetts
February 27, 1997
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
 
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM BALANCE
SHEET AND STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE
TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1996
<PERIOD-START>                             DEC-31-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1996
<CASH>                                         496,377
<SECURITIES>                                   344,481
<RECEIVABLES>                                  627,409
<ALLOWANCES>                                     7,368
<INVENTORY>                                    336,581
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                             1,754,136
<PP&E>                                         276,387
<DEPRECIATION>                                  52,899
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               2,293,546
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          417,502
<BONDS>                                        142,720
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         2,382
<OTHER-SE>                                   1,634,407
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 2,293,546
<SALES>                                      2,218,292
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             2,273,652
<CGS>                                        1,248,950
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                1,248,950
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               528,161
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              11,967
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                519,474
<INCOME-TAX>                                   133,245
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            386,229
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   386,229
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     1.57
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     1.56
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
