-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RvmEBgl1OEoxIw1fGNZMT7Pm4dH6QE4q8Dr37k7fYyWYP3y7s8K/PsQe8dTRXR6E
 4HcQOm2XyX77sA0PYJ/8pQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000891618-99-004365.txt : 19991227
<SEC-HEADER>0000891618-99-004365.hdr.sgml : 19991227
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000891618-99-004365
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K405
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		11
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19990731
FILED AS OF DATE:		19990928

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CISCO SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000858877
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT [3576]
		IRS NUMBER:				770059951
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K405
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-18225
		FILM NUMBER:		99718775

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		170 WEST TASMAN DRIVE
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4085264000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		225 WEST TASMAN DRIVE
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95134-1706
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K405
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K405
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1


                                    FORM 10-K
                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

(Mark one)

[X]  Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
     Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended July 31, 1999

[ ]  Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934 for the transition period from ________ to
     ________

     Commission file number 0-18225

                           CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           California                                   77-0059951
- ----------------------------------------            -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                       (IRS Employer
  incorporation or organization)                    Identification No.)

       170 West Tasman Drive
        San Jose, California                                 95134
- ----------------------------------------          -----------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)              (Zip Code)

     Registrant's telephone number, including area code (408) 526-4000

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                                  Name of each exchange
        Title of each class                        on which registered
        -------------------                       ----------------------
           Common Stock                           Nasdaq National Market


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                   Yes  X    No
                                       ---      ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best
of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

As of September 20, 1999, the approximate aggregate market value of voting stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $ 235,936,179,459 (based upon the
closing price for shares of the Registrant's Common Stock as reported by the
National Market System of the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotation System on that date). Shares of Common Stock held by each
officer, director, and holder of 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have
been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This
determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination
for other purposes. As of September 20, 1999, 3,297,512,440 shares of
registrant's common stock were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)  Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for its fiscal
     year ended July 31, 1999 are incorporated by reference into Part I and Part
     II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.

(2)  Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement related to the 1999 Annual
     Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 10, 1999, are incorporated
     by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where
     indicated. The table of exhibits filed appears at page 28.
<PAGE>   2



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

          GENERAL

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including,
without limitation, statements containing the words "believes," "anticipates,"
"estimates," "expects," and words of similar import, constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. Readers are referred to the "Risk Factors" section of the "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
contained in Cisco Systems, Inc.'s 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, which
section is incorporated herein by reference, as well as the "Risk Factors"
section contained herein, which identify important risk factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward looking
statements.

Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries (together with its subsidiaries
"Cisco", or the "Company") is the worldwide leader in networking for the
Internet. Cisco creates hardware and software solutions that link computer
networks so that people have easy access to information without regard to
differences in time, place, or type of computer system.

The Company markets its products through its direct sales force, single and
two-tier distributors, value-added resellers, service providers, and system
integrators. This multiple-channel approach allows customers to select the
channel that addresses their specific needs and provides the Company with broad
coverage of worldwide markets.

Cisco was incorporated in California in December 1984 and is headquartered in
San Jose. The mailing address for the Company's headquarters is 170 West Tasman
Drive, San Jose, California, 95134, and its telephone number at that location is
408 526-4000. Cisco can also be reached at its Web site http://www.cisco.com.

END-TO-END NETWORKING SOLUTIONS

The Cisco strategy is to provide end-to-end networking solutions to help its
customers improve productivity and gain a competitive advantage in today's
global economy. Cisco helps its customers build their own network infrastructure
while also providing tools to allow them to communicate to their suppliers' or
vendors' networks. An end-to-end networking solution provides a common technical
architecture that allows network services to be consistently provided to all
users on the network.

Cisco's product portfolio offers a broad range of end-to-end networking products
and services. Products are used individually or in combinations to connect
computing devices to networks or computer networks with each other -- whether
they are within a building, across



                                       2
<PAGE>   3

a campus, or around the world. The Company's breadth of product offerings
enables it to configure hardware and software features to meet customer
requirements. Many of the Company's products are easily upgraded, offering
customers the option to expand their networks as their needs grow.

The Company is now also delivering video and voice capabilities in its products,
allowing customers to transition their data networks to a single multiservice
data, voice, and video network.


Cisco product offerings fall into several categories:

Routing

Routing is a foundation technology for computer networking. Routers move
information from one network to another, applying intelligence in the process to
ensure that the information reaches its destination securely and in the fastest
way possible. Cisco offers a broad range of routers, including the Cisco 12000
gigabit switch router (GSR) series, the Cisco 7500 series, the Cisco 4000
series, and the Cisco 8500, 3600, 2600, 2500, 1000, and 700 product families.

Switching

Switching is another important networking technology that is used in both
local-area networks (LANs) and wide-area networks (WANs). Cisco's switching
strategy is designed to help users migrate from traditional shared LANs to fully
switched networks by delivering products that support the varying levels of
flexibility and cost-effectiveness required for today's desktop, workgroup, and
backbone applications. Cisco solutions employ all widely used switching
technologies -- Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, Token Ring, and Asynchronous
Transfer Mode (ATM). Cisco LAN switching products include the Catalyst(R)
product family, and its WAN switching products include the IGX(TM), BPX(R), TGX,
and MGX(TM) families.

Access

Today, people need to access their computers and communicate from the home, from
remote locations, and while traveling. Cisco access solutions give groups and
individuals who are remotely located similar levels of connectivity and
information access as they would have if they were located at the company's head
office. Asynchronous and Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)
remote-access routers, dialup access servers, Digital Subscriber Line (DSL)
technologies, and cable universal broadband routers provide telecommuters and
mobile workers with Internet access and branch-office connectivity. The
Company's access products include the AS5000 family of access servers, the Cisco
6100 and 6200 lines of Digital Subscriber Line Access Multiplexers (DSLAM), and
the Cisco uBR7200 Universal Broadband Router cable head-end equipment; access
routers such as the Cisco 6000, 4000, 3800, 3600, 2600, 2500, 1700, 1600, 1000,
800, and 700 families, and the Cisco ISR 3303 Integrated SONET/SDH Router, and
network security and management software.


                                       3
<PAGE>   4

Systems Network Architecture (SNA)/LAN

Most large organizations have existing IBM computing systems that use the
Systems Network Architecture (SNA) networking method as well as LANs based on
open network architectures (such as the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet
Protocol (TCP/IP)). Increasingly, network managers want to combine these two
networks into a single network that leverages existing investments. Cisco
provides a broad range of products and solutions for the IBM marketplace that
maximize availability, scalability, performance, flexibility, and management.
Much of this functionality is available through Cisco IOS(R) software, which
provides IBM networks with a clear migration path to the future while protecting
investments in existing equipment and applications.

Internet Services

Cisco offers end-to-end Internet services to improve a network manager's ability
to cope with challenges posed by the growing popularity of the Internet, such as
network traffic volume and network address shortages. Cisco Internet Service
Units (ISUs) drive architectural consistency across the Company by focusing on
standards-based services between clients and servers such as end-to-end quality
of service (QoS) and end-to-end security. Cisco Internet Services products
include: the PIX Firewall family, which prevents unauthorized access to a
network; the NetSonar(TM) System, which scans the network for security risks;
the NetRanger(R) System, which detects and responds to unauthorized activity or
network attacks; Cisco Secure VPN Client 1.0, which ensures data privacy when
accessing the network remotely; Cisco LocalDirector, Cisco Cache Engine, and
Cisco DistributedDirector, which balance the load between multiple servers to
enable timely access and to eliminate redundant Internet content; and the Cisco
Server Suite 1000, which consists of server applications with a graphical user
interface (GUI).

Cisco IOS Software

Cisco IOS Software is the common networking software product deployed across a
broad spectrum of Cisco systems for an integrated solution. Cisco IOS software
delivers intelligent network services -- such as QoS, load-balancing and
multicast functions -- that enable customers to build a flexible network
infrastructure that is scalable, reliable, and secure. These intelligent network
services also support next-generation Internet applications.

Among the emerging types of applications that require these features are
on-demand media, electronic commerce services, real-time trading, and distance-
learning activities. These applications form the foundation for new business
models that increase competition, improve customer service, and reduce the cost
of network services.

Network Management Software

Cisco is extending its leading Internet business practices to its network
management vision and products. For example, Cisco Assured Network Services
(ANS) is the Company's vision and strategy for enterprise network management.
This initiative combines the power of



                                       4
<PAGE>   5

the Internet with access to Cisco's networking expertise to deliver
enterprise-wide network availability, performance, and security. ANS ties
together all Cisco network management applications, on-line knowledge base, and
enterprise network infrastructure devices. One component of this initiative is
CiscoWorks2000, a family of products based on Internet standards that enables
enterprise customers to better control their large, complex, and heterogeneous
networks and devices.

In order for service providers to profit from increasing new business
opportunities, services must be carefully planned, quickly provisioned,
efficiently operated, and accurately billed. The Cisco Service Management (CSM)
system is a network service and delivery management system that provides a
modular suite of service management products integrated within a common and
scalable infrastructure. CSM enables service providers to effectively deploy,
monitor, and manage these new network services, while potentially increasing
revenue and reducing cost.

Cisco recently created a new business group focused on building software
solutions to expand the Company's technology offerings into messaging and call
centers, and extend Cisco's presence in the broader market for intelligent
customer contact software applications. Software applications from this team
will provide end users with the ability to unify voicemail, email and fax
traffic into a single mailbox accessible over an Internet-based network
independent of location, time or device. And, when calling in for customer
support, they will be connected to the best available customer service
representative regardless of physical location.

CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS

Networking needs are influenced by a number of factors, including the size of
the organization, number and types of computer systems, geographic locations,
and the applications requiring data communications. The Cisco customer base is
not concentrated in any particular industry, and in each of the past five fiscal
years no single customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of the Company's
net sales. For additional information regarding segment information for the
Company, see Note 11, "Segment Information and Major Customers," on page 52 of
the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by
reference herein.

The Cisco market strategy addresses four main customer profiles:

Enterprise

Enterprise customers generally are large organizations with 500 or more
employees with complex networking needs, usually spanning multiple locations and
types of computer systems. Enterprise customers include corporations, government
agencies, utilities, and educational institutions.

Service Providers

These customers provide data, voice, and video communication services to
businesses and consumers. They include national and international

                                       5
<PAGE>   6

regional and long distance telecommunications carriers, as well as Internet,
cable, and wireless service providers.

Small/Medium-Sized Businesses

These customers have less than 500 employees and a need for networks of their
own, as well as connection to the Internet and to business partners. However,
these customers generally have limited expertise in networking technology;
therefore, the Company attempts to provide products that are affordable and easy
to install and use.

Consumers

Consumers have a need for networking devices and services to connect them to the
Internet from within the home. In addition, some advanced consumers will network
together a range of devices within their home, linking together such devices as
PCs, TV, phone, fax, and more, into an integrated personal network. Internet
access services are provided to them through regional carriers and Internet
Service Providers (ISPs).

Cisco Sales Overview

The Company's worldwide direct sales organization at August 28, 1999 consisted
of approximately 7,200 individuals, including managers, sales representatives,
and technical support personnel. The Company has approximately 105 field sales
offices providing coverage throughout the United States.

Additionally, the Company's international sales are currently being made through
multiple channels including approximately 120 international distributors and
resellers throughout the world. These international distributors provide system
installation, technical support, and follow-up services to end customers.
Generally, the Company's international distributors have nonexclusive,
country-wide agreements. For additional information regarding the Company's
international sales see Note 11, "Segment Information and Major Customers," on
page 52 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is
incorporated by reference herein.

ACQUISITIONS, INVESTMENTS AND ALLIANCES

The end-to-end networking strategy pursued by Cisco requires a wide variety of
technologies, products, and capabilities. The combination of complexity and
rapid change make it difficult for one company, no matter how large, to develop
all technological solutions alone. Acquisitions, investments, and alliances are
tools used by the Company to fill gaps in its offerings and enable it to deliver
complete solutions to its customers and prospects in target markets.

Satisfying customers' networking needs requires a constant monitoring of market
and technology trends, plus an ability to act quickly. Cisco has a four-part
approach to satisfying the need for new or



                                       6
<PAGE>   7

enhanced networking products and solutions. In order of preference, the approach
is to develop new technologies and products internally; enter into
joint-development efforts with other companies; resell another company's
product; and acquire all or part of another company.

Acquisitions involve numerous risks, which are more fully discussed in the "Risk
Factors" section of this report.

Since 1993, the Company has acquired a number of companies. The Company expects
to make future acquisitions where it believes that it can acquire new products
and channels of distribution or otherwise rapidly enter new or emerging markets.
Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and
no assurance can be given that the Company's previous or future acquisitions
will be successful and will not adversely affect the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.

Each of the Company's acquisitions has furthered the Company's commitment to
providing an end-to-end solution. The Company now has a broad set of product
offerings and technologies, which include Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, Token
Ring, ATM switching, SONET/SDH, xDSL, dial, converged data, voice, and video
technologies, call center and unified messaging solutions, network security, and
network management software solutions, among others.

MINORITY INVESTMENTS

The Company makes minority investments in companies that build complementary
technology to Cisco products, and by investing in new ventures Cisco strengthens
its partnerships with such companies. Together, Cisco and its portfolio
companies can offer more complete solutions to the market.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

Cisco pursues strategic alliances with other industry leaders in areas where
collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets.
The objectives and goals for a strategic alliance can include one or more of the
following: technology exchange, product development, joint marketing and sales,
and new-market creation. This year, Cisco expanded its relationships with
Microsoft, Hewlett-Packard, Intel, and Sprint and created new alliances with
KPMG, IBM, Telcordia, Motorola, and Portal Software. We also extended our
business alliances with Fujitsu and Japan Telecom, while announcing strategic
relationships with USWest and NTT, among others.

BACKLOG

The Company's backlog on September 20, 1999 was approximately $922 million
compared with an approximate backlog of $693 million at September 19, 1998. The
Company includes in its backlog only orders confirmed with a purchase order for
products to be shipped within 120 days to customers with approved credit status.
Because of the generally short cycle between order and shipment, and occasional
customer changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made
without significant penalty), the Company does not believe



                                       7
<PAGE>   8

that its backlog, as of any particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual
net sales for any future period.

COMPETITION

Cisco competes in the internet infrastructure market, providing solutions for
transporting data, voice, and video traffic across intranets, extranets, and the
Internet. The market is characterized by rapid growth, converging technologies,
and a conversion to new world solutions that offer superior advantages. These
market factors represent both an opportunity and a competitive threat to Cisco.
The Company competes with numerous vendors in each product category. Cisco
expects that the overall number of competitors providing niche product solutions
will increase due to the market's attractive growth. On the other hand, the
Company expects the number of vendors supplying end-to-end solutions will
decrease, due to the rapid pace of acquisitions in the industry. The Company
believes its primary competition will be from a few large suppliers of
end-to-end solutions.

Cisco's competitors include Lucent, Nortel, Ericsson, 3Com, Cabletron, Alcatel
and Juniper. Some of the Company's competitors compete across many of Cisco's
product lines, while others do not offer as wide a breadth of solutions. Several
of the Company's current and potential competitors have greater financial,
marketing and technical resources than the Company.

The principal competitive factors in the markets in which the Company presently
competes and may compete in the future are:

o    price
o    performance
o    the ability to provide end-to-end solutions and support
o    conformance to standards
o    the ability to provide added value features such as security, reliability,
     and investment protection and
o    market presence

The Company also faces competition from customers it licenses technology to and
suppliers from whom it transfers technology. Networking's inherent nature
requires interoperability. As such, the Company must cooperate, and at the same
time compete, with these companies. The Company's inability to effectively
manage these complicated relationships with customers and suppliers could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business, operating results, and
financial condition.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company continues to enhance and extend its product lines with new product
and feature introductions including optical networking, data, voice, and video
integration, Virtual Private Networking (VPN), Digital Subscriber Line (DSL),
cable modem, gigabit switching, security, and network management, among others.

                                       8
<PAGE>   9

However, the industry in which Cisco competes is subject to rapid technological
developments, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and
frequent new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, the Company's
success, in part, depends upon its ability, on a cost-effective and timely
basis, to continue to enhance its existing solutions and to develop and
introduce new solutions that improve performance and reduce total cost of
ownership. In order to achieve these objectives, the Company's management and
engineering personnel work closely with customers, to identify and respond to
customer needs, as well as with other innovators of internetworking products,
including universities, laboratories, and corporations. The Company will also
continue to make strategic acquisitions and equity investments where
appropriate. The Company intends to remain dedicated to industry standards and
to continue to support important protocol standards as they emerge. Still, there
can be no assurance that Cisco will be able to successfully develop new products
to address new customer requirements and technological changes, or that such
products will achieve market acceptance.

In fiscal 1999, 1998, and 1997, the Company's research and development
expenditures were approximately $1,594 million, $1,026 million, and $702
million, respectively. All of the Company's expenditures for research and
development costs, as well as purchased in-process research and development of
approximately $471 million, $594 million, and $508 million in fiscal 1999, 1998,
and 1997, respectively, have been expensed as incurred.

MANUFACTURING

The Company's manufacturing operations consist primarily of quality assurance of
materials, components, and subassemblies. Additionally, the Company performs
final assembly and test. The Company presently uses a variety of independent
third-party companies to perform printed circuit board assembly, in circuit
test, and product repair. The Company and its single enterprise partners install
proprietary software on electronically programmable memory chips installed in
its systems in order to configure products to customer needs and to maintain
quality control and security. The manufacturing process enables the Company to
configure the hardware and software in unique combinations to meet a wide
variety of individual customer requirements. The Company and its single
enterprise partners also use automated testing equipment and "burn-in"
procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and statistical
process control, to assure the quality and reliability of its products. The
Company's and its partners' manufacturing processes and procedures are ISO 9001
certified.

PATENTS, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSING

Cisco's success is dependent upon its proprietary technology. Cisco generally
relies upon patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to establish
and maintain its proprietary rights in its technology and products. Cisco has a
program to file applications for and obtain patents in the United States and in
selected foreign



                                       9
<PAGE>   10

countries where a potential market for Cisco's products exists. Cisco has been
issued a number of patents; other patent applications are currently pending.
There can be no assurance that any of these patents will not be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented, or that any rights granted thereunder will provide
competitive advantages to Cisco. In addition, there can be no assurance that
patents will be issued from pending applications, or that claims allowed on any
future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect Cisco's technology. In
addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not permit the protection of
Cisco's proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United
States. Although Cisco believes the protection afforded by its patents, patent
applications, copyrights and trademarks has value, the rapidly changing
technology in the networking industry makes Cisco's future success dependent
primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management
abilities of its employees rather than on patent, copyright, and trademark
protection.

Many of Cisco's products are designed to include software or other intellectual
property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future to
seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, Cisco
believes that based upon past experience and standard industry practice, such
licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Because
of the existence of a large number of patents in the networking field and the
rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically practical to
determine in advance whether a product or any of its components infringe patent
rights of others. From time to time, Cisco receives notices from or is sued by
third parties regarding patent claims. If infringement is alleged, Cisco
believes that, based upon industry practice, any necessary license or rights
under such patents may be obtained on terms that would not have a material
adverse effect on Cisco's business, operating results and financial condition.
Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be
available on acceptable terms, if at all, or that Cisco would prevail in any
such challenge. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other rights or to
obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to engage in
litigation could have a material adverse effect on Cisco's business, operating
results and financial condition.

RISK FACTORS

Our business and the value of our stock is subject to a number of risks. Some of
those risks are described above and certain additional risks are set forth
below. Other risks are presented in the "Risk Factors" section on pages 27-32 of
our Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended July 31, 1999, which pages
we incorporated herein by reference.

WE EXPECT TO MAKE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS WHERE ADVISABLE AND ACQUISITIONS INVOLVE
NUMEROUS RISKS

The networking business is highly competitive, and as such, our growth is
dependent upon market growth and our ability to enhance our existing products
and introduce new products on a timely basis. One of the ways we have addressed
and will continue to address the need to develop new products is through
acquisitions of other companies.



                                       10
<PAGE>   11

Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following:

o    difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products
     of the acquired companies;
o    the risk of diverting management's attention from normal daily operations
     of the business;
o    potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in-
     process research and development;
o    risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior
     experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market
     positions; and
o    the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company.

Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and
no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating
results or financial condition.

We must also maintain our ability to manage any such growth effectively. Failure
to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquisitions made by us
could materially harm our business and operating results.

WE FACE RISKS FROM THE UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET

There are currently few laws or regulations that apply directly to access or
commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by
regulation in any country where we operate, on such technology as voice over the
Internet, encryption technology and access charges for Internet service
providers, as well as the continuing deregulation of the telecommunication
industry. The adoption of such measures could decrease demand for our products,
and at the same time increase our cost of selling our products. Changes in laws
or regulations governing the Internet and Internet commerce could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition.

THE ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
TO RISKS

As we focus on new market opportunities, such as transporting data, voice, and
video traffic across the same network, we will increasingly compete with large
telecommunications equipment suppliers such as Lucent, Ericsson and Nortel,
among others, and several well-funded start-up companies. Several of our current
and potential competitors have greater financial, marketing and technical
resources than we do. Additionally, as customers in these markets complete
infrastructure deployments, they may require greater levels of service, support
and financing than we have experienced in the past. We have not entered into a
material amount of labor intensive service contracts which require significant
production or customization. However, we expect that demand for these types of
service contracts will increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we
can provide products, service, support and financing to effectively compete for
these market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of



                                       11
<PAGE>   12

services by us may result in less favorable timing of revenue recognition than
we have historically experienced.

WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE ABILITY OF SUPPLIERS TO DELIVER PARTS ON TIME

Our growth and ability to meet customer demands also depend in part on our
ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers. We have
experienced component shortages in the past that have adversely affected our
operations. Although we work closely with our suppliers to avoid these types of
shortages, there can be no assurances that we will not encounter these problems
in the future.

THE LOCATION OF OUR FACILITIES SUBJECTS US TO THE RISK OF EARTHQUAKES AND FLOODS

Our corporate headquarters, including most of our research and development
operations and our manufacturing facilities, are located in the Silicon Valley
area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity. Additionally,
one of our manufacturing facilities is located near a river that has experienced
flooding in the past. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or a
flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition
and operating results.

WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID CHANGES
IN TECHNOLOGY AND THE MARKET

Our operating results will depend to a significant extent on our ability to
reduce the costs to produce existing products. In particular, we broadened our
product line by introducing network access products. Sales of these products,
which are generally lower priced and carry lower margins than our core products,
have increased more rapidly than sales of our core products. The success of
these and other new products is dependent on several factors, including proper
new product definition, product cost, timely completion and introduction of new
products, differentiation of new products from those of our competitors and
market acceptance of these products. The markets for our products are
characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards,
frequent new product introductions, and evolving methods of building and
operating networks. There can be no assurance that we will successfully identify
new product opportunities, develop and bring new products to market in a timely
manner, and achieve market acceptance of our products or that products and
technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies
obsolete or noncompetitive.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

We have a number of strategic alliances with companies including Microsoft,
Hewlett-Packard, EDS, Sprint and Motorola, among others. These arrangements are
generally limited to specific projects, the goal of which is generally to
facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry standards. If
successful, these relationships will be mutually beneficial and result in
industry growth. However, these alliances carry an element of risk because, in
most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company with which we
have



                                       12
<PAGE>   13

strategic alliances and, at the same time, cooperate with such company in other
business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform, or if these
relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer delays in product
development or other operational difficulties.

THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE COMPETE IS SUBJECT TO CONSOLIDATION

There has been a trend toward industry consolidation for several years, which
has continued during fiscal 1999. We expect this trend toward industry
consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their
market positions in an evolving industry. We believe that industry consolidation
may provide stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source
vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results
as we compete to be a single vendor solution and could have a material adverse
effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.

SALES IN THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE SUBJECT TO VARIATION

Although sales to the service provider market have grown historically, this
market is characterized by large, and often sporadic purchases. Sales activity
in this industry depends upon the stage of completion of expanding network
infrastructures, the availability of funding, and the extent that service
providers are affected by regulatory and business conditions in the country of
operations. A decline or delay in sales orders from this industry could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition.

WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MANUFACTURE OF PARTS AND COMPONENTS
OF OUR PRODUCTS

Although we generally use standard parts and components for our products,
certain components are presently available only from a single source or limited
sources. A reduction or interruption in supply or a significant increase in the
price of one or more components would adversely affect our business, operating
results and financial condition and could materially damage customer
relationships.

WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATION REGULATION AND
TARIFFS

Changes in domestic and international telecommunication requirements could
affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe it is possible that
there may be significant changes in domestic telecommunications regulation in
the near future that could slow the expansion of the service providers' network
infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating results
and financial condition. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory agencies or
application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services could affect
the sales of our products for certain classes of customers. Additionally, in the
U.S. our products must comply with various Federal Communication Commission
requirements and regulations. In countries outside of the U.S., our products
must meet



                                       13
<PAGE>   14

various requirements of local telecommunications authorities. Changes in
tariffs, or failure by us to obtain timely approval of products could have a
material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial
condition.

OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS FROM INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

We conduct business globally. Accordingly, our future results could be
materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing
factors including among others foreign currency exchange rates; regulatory,
political or economic conditions in a specific country or region; trade
protection measures and other regulatory requirements among other factors;
government spending patterns; and natural disasters. In fiscal 1999, the sales
growth rate in Japan, as well as in certain other parts of Asia continued to be
slower than that in other areas. Any or all of these factors could have a
material adverse impact on our future international business in these or other
countries.

OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET AND
INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS

We believe that there will be performance problems with Internet
communications in the future which could receive a high degree of publicity and
visibility. As we are a large supplier of equipment for the Internet
infrastructure, customers' perceptions of our products and the marketplace's
perception of us as a supplier of networking products, may be materially
adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are due to the
performance of our products. Such an event could also result in a material
adverse effect on the market price of our Common Stock and could materially
adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.

OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE VOLATILE

Our Common Stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as a
result of variations between our actual or anticipated financial results and the
published expectations of analysts and as a result of announcements by our
competitors and us. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price
and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology
companies in particular and that have often been unrelated to the operating
performance of these companies. These factors, as well as general economic and
political conditions, may materially adversely affect the market price of
Cisco's Common Stock in the future.

EMPLOYEES

As of July 31, 1999, we employed approximately 21,000 persons, including 3,900
in manufacturing, service and support, 8,600 in sales and marketing, 7,000 in
engineering, and 1,500 in finance and administration. Approximately 4,400
employees were in international locations.

None of the employees are represented by a labor union, and we



                                       14
<PAGE>   15

consider our relations with our employees to be positive. We have experienced no
work stoppages.

Competition for technical personnel in our industry is intense. We believe that
our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, assimilate,
and retain qualified personnel. To date, we believe that we have been successful
in recruiting qualified employees, but there is no assurance that we will
continue to be successful in the future.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company's principal corporate offices are located at sites in Santa Clara
and San Jose, California. The Company's main headquarters are situated on 448
acres of leased land in San Jose, California. There are 29 buildings located at
these sites, one of which is a manufacturing facility. The San Jose headquarters
consist of approximately 3.8 million square feet of leased office space at the
present time. The Company expects that construction at its current sites will
continue through 2000, with the potential to add approximately 1.2 million
square feet of leased office space. Additionally, two new sites have recently
been leased near its present corporate offices in San Jose, California. The
Company has certain other operating leases for buildings, including those
assumed as part of the StrataCom acquisition. These buildings, which include
additional manufacturing facilities, are located at various sites near San Jose,
California and consist of approximately 1 million square feet of leased space.

In addition to the California facilities, the Company leases approximately 45
acres of land in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, where the InterWorks
Business Division, as well as a Technical Assistance Center, telesales, and
various other support functions, are located. There are six buildings at this
site with a total of approximately 1 million square feet of office space.

The Company also leases various small offices throughout the U.S. and on a
worldwide basis. For additional information regarding the Company's obligations
under leases, see Note 7 "Commitments and Contingencies" on page 45 of the
Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is hereby incorporated by
reference.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.



                                       15
<PAGE>   16

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   POSITION
            NAME        AGE                     POSITION                                          HELD SINCE
- ----------------------  ---     --------------------------------------------------                ----------
<S>                     <C>     <C>                                                               <C>
   Larry R. Carter       56     Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration,                   1997
                                --------------------------------------------------
                                Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary
                                --------------------------------------
                                Mr. Carter joined the Company in January 1995 as
                                Vice President for Finance and Administration.
                                In July 1997, he was promoted to his present
                                position of Senior Vice President. From July
                                1992 to January 1995, he was Vice President and
                                Corporate Controller for Advanced Micro Devices.
                                Prior to that, he was with V.L.S.I. Technology,
                                Inc. for four years where he held the position
                                of Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial
                                Officer. Mr. Carter currently serves on the
                                board of directors of Network Appliances, Inc.,
                                Ultratech Stepper, Inc. and Qlogic, Inc.

   John T. Chambers      50     President, Chief Executive Officer and Director                      1995
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                Mr. Chambers has been a member of the Board of
                                Directors since November 1993. He joined the
                                Company as Senior Vice President in January 1991
                                and became Executive Vice President in June
                                1994. Mr. Chambers became President and Chief
                                Executive Officer of the Company as of January
                                31, 1995. Prior to his services at Cisco, he was
                                with Wang Laboratories for eight years, most
                                recently as Senior Vice President of U.S.
                                Operations.

   Gary Daichendt        49     Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations                       1998
                                ----------------------------------------------
                                Mr. Daichendt joined the Company in October 1994
                                as Vice President for Intercontinental
                                Operations, Covering Asia, Pacific Rim, Canada,
                                Central and South America and Mexico. In October
                                1997, Mr. Daichendt became Senior Vice
                                President, Worldwide Operations at Cisco Systems
                                and became Executive Vice President in August
                                1998. He is responsible for managing the sales
                                and distribution operations of Cisco offices
                                worldwide. Prior to his services at Cisco, he
                                spent eight years at Wang Laboratories, most
                                recently as Vice President of Central Operations
                                and Vice President of Worldwide Marketing. Mr.
                                Daichendt also spent ten years with IBM in
                                various sales, marketing, and management
                                positions.


   Judith Estrin         44     Senior Vice President, Business Development,
                                Chief Technology Officer                                             1998
                                -----------------------
                                Ms. Estrin joined the Company in April 1998 in
                                her present position. Prior to joining Cisco,
                                Ms. Estrin was CEO of Precept Software, Inc.
                                which she co-founded in 1995. Precept was
                                acquired by Cisco in March 1998. Prior to that,
                                she spent six years at Network Computing
                                Devices, most recently as President and CEO. Ms.
                                Estrin currently serves on the Board of
                                Directors of Federal Express, Rockwell
                                International, Sun Microsystems and The Walt
                                Disney Company.
</TABLE>


                                       16
<PAGE>   17

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   POSITION
            NAME        AGE                     POSITION                                          HELD SINCE
- ----------------------  ---     --------------------------------------------------                ----------
<S>                     <C>     <C>                                                               <C>
 Charles H. Giancarlo   41      Senior Vice President, Small/Medium Business
                                Line of Business                                                     1999
                                ----------------
                                Mr. Giancarlo joined the Company in December
                                1994 as Director of Business Development. He was
                                promoted to Vice President in September 1995. He
                                was Vice President, of Global Alliances from
                                April 1997 to April 1999 and promoted to Senior
                                Vice President in April 1998. In April 1999, he
                                was promoted to his present position of Senior
                                Vice President, Small/Medium Line of Business.
                                Prior to Cisco, he was Vice President of
                                Marketing with Kalpana Corporation from July
                                1993. Kalpana was acquired by Cisco in December
                                1994.

  Edward R. Kozel       44      Senior Vice President, Corporate Development and
                                Director                                                             1998
                                --------
                                Mr. Kozel has been a member of the Board of
                                Directors since November 1996. He joined the
                                Company as Director, Program Management in March
                                1989. In April 1992, Mr. Kozel became Director
                                of Field Operations and in February 1993, he
                                became Vice President of Business Development.
                                In January 1996, he became Chief Technology
                                Officer of the Company and has been in his
                                current position since April 1998. Mr. Kozel
                                currently serves on the Board of Directors of
                                Centigram Communications Corporation and Tibco
                                Software, Inc.

  Donald J. Listwin     40      Executive Vice President, Service Provider and                       1998
                                Consumer Lines of Business
                                --------------------------
                                Mr. Listwin joined the Company in 1990 as a
                                Product Marketing Manager. He held various
                                positions within the marketing department before
                                being promoted to Vice President of Marketing in
                                September 1993. Mr. Listwin was promoted to Vice
                                President and General Manager of the Access
                                Business Unit in September of 1995. He became
                                Senior Vice President of Cisco IOS Development
                                and Marketing in August of 1996 and Senior Vice
                                President of the Service Provider Line of
                                Business in April 1997. He became Executive Vice
                                President, Service Provider and Consumer Lines
                                of Business in May 1998. Mr. Listwin currently
                                serves on the Board of Directors of
                                Software.com, E-Tek Dynamics, Inc. and Tibco
                                Software, Inc.

Mario Mazzola        52         Senior Vice President, Enterprise Line of Business                   1997
                                --------------------------------------------------
                                Mr. Mazzola was the President and CEO of
                                Crescendo Communications, Inc. which he founded
                                in 1990. Crescendo was acquired by Cisco Systems
                                in September 1993.  At that time, Mr. Mazzola
                                joined Cisco as the Vice President and General
                                Manager of the Workgroup Business Unit. Mr.
                                Mazzola became Senior Vice President of the
                                Enterprise Line of Business in April 1997.  Mr.
                                Mazzola was the Vice President of Engineering of
                                David Systems which he co-founded in June 1982.
                                Mr. Mazzola holds several patents on high-speed
                                transmission techniques on unshielded
                                twisted-pair wiring.
</TABLE>

                                       17
<PAGE>   18

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   POSITION
            NAME        AGE                     POSITION                                          HELD SINCE
- ----------------------  ---     --------------------------------------------------                ----------
<S>                     <C>     <C>                                                               <C>
  Carl Redfield         52      Senior Vice President, Manufacturing and Logistics                   1997
                                --------------------------------------------------
                                Mr. Redfield joined the Company in August 1993
                                as Director, Supply/Demand of Manufacturing and
                                became Vice President of Manufacturing in
                                September 1993. Mr. Redfield became Senior Vice
                                President, Manufacturing and Logistics in
                                February 1997. Prior to joining Cisco, he spent
                                eighteen years at Digital Equipment Company,
                                most recently as Group Manufacturing and
                                Logistics Manager of the PC Group.
</TABLE>

                                       18
<PAGE>   19


                                     PART II


ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
           MATTERS

(a)    The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to
       page 55 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

(b)    During the quarter ended July 31, 1999, the Company issued an aggregate
       of 2,017,180 shares of its Common Stock in connection with the purchase
       of the capital stock of Amteva Technologies, Inc. The shares were issued
       pursuant to an exemption by reason of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act
       of 1933. These sales were made without general solicitation or
       advertising. Each purchaser was an accredited investor or a sophisticated
       investor with access to all relevant information necessary. The Company
       has filed a Registration Statement on Form S-3 covering the resale of
       such securities.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 21 of
the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
22-32 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
28-29 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages
33-55 of the Company's 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Reference is made to the information regarding Directors appearing under the
caption "Election of Directors" in the Company's proxy statement to be mailed to
Shareholders on or about September 27, 1999, which information is incorporated
herein by reference; and to



                                       19
<PAGE>   20

the information under the heading "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part
I hereof.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information appearing at the end of Part I and under the caption "Executive
Compensation and Related Information" in the Company's proxy statement to be
mailed to Shareholders on or about September 27, 1999, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information appearing under the captions "Election of Directors" and
"Ownership of Securities" in the Company's proxy statement to be mailed to
Shareholders on or about September 27, 1999, is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information appearing under the caption "Ownership of Securities" and
"Executive Compensation and Related Information" in the Company's proxy
statement to be mailed to Shareholders on or about September 27, 1999, is
incorporated herein by reference.

                                     PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)    1.     Financial Statements

              The financial statements listed in Item 14(a) are filed or
              incorporated herein by reference as part of this annual report.
              See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
              on Page 24.

       2.     Financial Statement Schedule

              The financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a) is filed as
              part of this annual report. See Index to Financial Statements and
              Financial Statement Schedule on Page 24.

       3.     Exhibits

              The exhibits listed in the accompanying Index to Exhibits on pages
              28-30 are filed or incorporated by reference as part of this
              annual report.

(b)           Reports on Form 8-K

              The Company filed two reports on Form 8-K during the fourth
              quarter ended July 31, 1999. Information regarding the items
              reported on is as follows:



                                       20
<PAGE>   21

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               Date                      Item Reported On
               ----                      ----------------
              <S>                       <C>
              May 14, 1999              The Company announced a two-for-one
                                        stock split effective for shareholders
                                        of record as of May 24, 1999

              July 2, 1999              The June 1999 acquisition of GeoTel
</TABLE>


                                       21
<PAGE>   22

                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, the Registrant has
duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the
undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of San Jose, State of
California on this 23rd day of September, 1999. Cisco Systems, Inc.



                                            /s/ John T. Chambers
                                            -----------------------------------
                                            (John T. Chambers, President and
                                                Chief Executive Officer)


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, this Report on Form
10-K has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the dates
indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        Signature                                     Title                                   Date
- -------------------------------            ----------------------------                -------------------
<S>                                        <C>                                         <C>

                                                President and Chief
   /s/ John T. Chambers                          Executive Officer                     September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------                (Principal Executive
   John T. Chambers                           Officer and Director)

                                              Senior Vice President,
  /s/ Larry R. Carter                      Finance and Administration,                 September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------            Chief Financial Officer and
      Larry R. Carter                               Secretary
                                            (Principal Financial and
                                               Accounting Officer)


   /s/ John P. Morgridge                         Chairman of the                       September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------                 Board and Director
      John P. Morgridge



   /s/ Donald T. Valentine                     Vice Chairman of the                    September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------                 Board and Director
   Donald T. Valentine



   /s/ Carol A. Bartz                                Director                          September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------
   Carol A. Bartz


                                                     Director
- ----------------------------
   Mary Cirillo


   /s/ James F. Gibbons                              Director                          September 23, 1999
- ----------------------------
   Dr. James F. Gibbons



   /s/ Edward R. Kozel                        Senior Vice President,                   September 23, 1999
- ----------------------------                 Corporate Development and
   Edward R. Kozel                                    Director
</TABLE>


                                       22
<PAGE>   23

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
        Signature                                     Title                                  Date
- -------------------------------            ----------------------------               -------------------
<S>                                        <C>                                        <C>
   /s/ James C. Morgan                              Director                          September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------
   James C. Morgan


   /s/ Robert L. Puette                             Director                          September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------
   Robert L. Puette

   /s/ Arun Sarin                                   Director                          September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------
   Arun Sarin

                                                    Director
- -------------------------------
   Masayoshi Son

   /s/ Steven M. West                               Director                          September 23, 1999
- -------------------------------
   Steven M. West
</TABLE>



                                       23
<PAGE>   24

                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
                                  -------------

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                        AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                                   ITEM 14(A)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                           Page
                                                                             ----------------------------------
                                                                                                   1999 Annual
                                                                                                    Report to
                                                                              Form 10-K           Shareholders
<S>                                                                           <C>                 <C>
   Data incorporated by reference from the 1999 Annual Report
   to Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.:

       Consolidated statements of operations for each
          of the three years in the period
          ended July 31, 1999  ............................                                            33

       Consolidated balance sheets at July 31, 1999
          and July 25, 1998 ...............................                                            34

       Consolidated statements of cash flows for each of
          the three years in the period ended July 31, 1999                                            35

       Consolidated statements of shareholders' equity
          for each of the three years in the period
          ended July 31, 1999..............................                                            36

       Notes to consolidated financial statements..........                                           37-53

       Report of Independent Accountants...................                                            54

       Supplementary financial data:
         Fiscal years 1999 and 1998 by quarter (unaudited)                                             55


   Data submitted herewith:


       Financial Statement Schedule:
         Report of Independent Accountants.................                       26
         II   Valuation and qualifying accounts............                       27
</TABLE>


All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedules, or because
the information required is included in the consolidated financial statements or
notes thereto.

With the exception of the consolidated financial statements and the independent
accountants' report thereon listed in the above index, the information referred
to in Items 1, 5, 6, 7 and 7A and the



                                       24
<PAGE>   25

supplementary quarterly financial information referred to in Item 8, all of
which is included in the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders and
incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K Annual Report, the 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders is not to be deemed "filed" as part of this report.


                                       25
<PAGE>   26
       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE



To the Board of Directors
Cisco Systems, Inc.


Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated August 10, 1999 appearing in the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders of
Cisco Systems, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an
audit of the financial statement schedules listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this Form
10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule present fairly, in all
material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction
with the related consolidated financial statements.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California
August 10, 1999


                                       26
<PAGE>   27

                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                  (in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                Balance at                                     Balance at
                                                Beginning       Charged to                       End of
                                                of Period        Expenses       Deductions       Period
                                                ----------      ----------      ----------     ----------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>
   Year ended July 26, 1997:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts               $ 21            $ 13            $ 12           $ 22
    Allowance for excess and obsolete
     inventory                                      62             123             104  (1)        81

   Year ended July 25, 1998:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts                 22              43              25             40
    Allowance for excess and obsolete
     inventory                                      81             161              98  (1)       144

   Year ended July 31, 1999:
    Allowance for doubtful accounts                 40              19              32             27
    Allowance for excess and obsolete
     inventory                                     144             151             144  (1)       151
</TABLE>

       (1) Deductions principally relate to charges for standards changes.


                                       27
<PAGE>   28
                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

(Item 14 (a))

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit
Number                              Exhibit Description
- ------                              -------------------
<S>                 <C>

3.1.1               Restated Articles of Incorporation (1)

3.1.2               Amendment to the Cisco Systems, Inc. Restated Articles of
                    Incorporation, as currently in effect (filed herewith)

3.2                 Cisco Systems, Inc. Amended and Restated Bylaws, as
                    currently in effect(1)

10.1                Rights Agreement dated as of June 10, 1998 between Cisco
                    Systems, Inc. and Bank Boston, N.A. (2)

10.2*               Cisco Systems, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (filed
                    herewith)

10.3*               1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan (including the
                    following: Stock Option Agreement in connection with the
                    1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan) (1)

10.12*              Senior Management Incentive Plan-Fiscal Year 2000 (filed
                    herewith)

10.13*              Cisco Systems, Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (4)

10.14               Master Lease (Cisco Technology, Inc. Trust 1998), dated as
                    of June 2, 1998 between State Street Bank and Trust Company
                    of California, N.A., not in its individual capacity, but
                    solely as Certificate Trustee, as Lessor, and Cisco
                    Technology, Inc., as Lessee, and General Guarantee (Cisco
                    Technology, Inc. Trust 1998) from Cisco Systems, Inc., dated
                    as of June 2, 1998 and a Participant Guarantee (Cisco
                    Technology, Inc. Trust 1998) from Cisco Systems, Inc., dated
                    as of June 2, 1998. (1)

10.23               Lease Agreement between the Company and SGA Development
                    Partnership, Ltd., dated February 19, 1993, for the
                    Company's site in San Jose, California. (3)

10.24               Lease Agreement between the Company and Sumitomo Bank
                    Leasing and Finance, Inc., dated May 13, 1993 for the
                    Company's facilities in San Jose, California (3)

10.25               Lease Agreement between the Company and SGA Development
                    Partnership, Ltd., dated February 19, 1993, for the
                    Company's site in San Jose, California (3)

10.27               Lease Agreement between the Company and Sumitomo Bank
                    Leasing and Finance, Inc., dated July 11, 1994 for the
                    Company's site in Wake County, North Carolina (3)

10.28               Lease Agreement between the Company and Sumitomo Bank
                    Leasing and Finance, Inc., dated August 12, 1994 for the
                    Company's facilities in Wake County, North Carolina (3)

10.29               Lease (Buildings "I" and "J") by and between Sumitomo Bank
                    of New York Trust Company ("SBNYTC") as trustee under that
                    certain Trust Agreement dated May 22, 1995 between Sumitomo
                    Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc. and SBNYTC ("SB Trust"), as
                    Landlord, and the Company, as tenant, dated May 22, 1995 (3)

10.30               First Amendment to Lease (Buildings "I" and "J") between SB
                    Trust and the Company, dated July 18, 1995 (3)

10.31               Lease (Buildings "K" and "L") by and between SB Trust and
                    the Company, dated May 22, 1995 (3)
</TABLE>


                                       28
<PAGE>   29

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit
Number                              Exhibit Description
- ------                              -------------------
<S>                 <C>

10.32               First Amendment to Lease (Buildings "K" and "L") between SB
                    Trust and the Company, dated July 18, 1995 (3)

10.33               Lease (Improvements Phase "C") between SB Trust and the
                    Company, dated May 22, 1995 (3)

10.34               First Amendment to Lease (Improvements Phase "C") between SB
                    Trust and the Company, dated July 18, 1995 (3)

10.35               Ground Lease (Parcel 2 and Lot 54) by and between Irish
                    Leasing Corporation ("Irish"), as Landlord, and the Company,
                    as Tenant, dated February 28, 1995 for the Company's site in
                    San Jose, California (3)

10.36               First Amendment to Lease (Parcel 2 and Lot 54) by and
                    between Irish and the Company dated as of May 1, 1995 (3)

10.37               Second Amendment to Lease (Parcel 2 and Lot 54) by and
                    between Irish and the Company dated as of May 22, 1995 (3)

10.38               Ground Lease (Lots 58 and 59) by and between Irish and the
                    Company dated February 28, 1995 for the Company's site in
                    San Jose, California (3)

10.39               First Amendment to Lease (Lots 58 and 59) by and between
                    Irish and the Company dated as of May 1, 1995 (3)

10.40               Second Amendment to Lease (Lots 58 and 59) by and between
                    Irish and the Company dated as of May 22, 1995 (3)

10.41               Ground Lease (Tasman Phase C) by and between Irish and the
                    Company dated April 12, 1995 for the Company's site in San
                    Jose, California (3)

10.42               First Amendment to Lease (Tasman Phase C) by and between
                    Irish and the Company dated as of May 1, 1995 (3)

10.43               Second Amendment to Lease (Tasman Phase C) by and between
                    Irish and the Company dated as of May 22, 1995 (3)

10.46               Second Amendment to Lease between Sumitomo Bank Leasing and
                    Finance, Inc. and the Company, dated February 24, 1998, for
                    the Company's site in San Jose, California. (filed herewith)

10.47               First Amendment to the Lease between Sumitomo Bank Leasing
                    and Finance, Inc. and the Company, dated July 10, 1999.
                    (filed herewith)

10.48               Second Amendment to Ground Lease (North Carolina) between
                    Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc. and the Company,
                    dated July 10, 1999. (filed herewith)

10.52               Master Lease between the Company, as the Lessee, and UBS
                    MORTGAGE FINANCE INC. as the Lessor, dated December 27, 1996
                    (4)
</TABLE>


                                       29
<PAGE>   30

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Exhibit
Number                              Exhibit Description
- ------                              -------------------
<S>                 <C>

10.53               Credit Agreement dated as of July 2, 1997 among Cisco
                    Systems, Inc., and Citicorp USA, Inc., as Administrative
                    Agent, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as
                    Documentation Agent, Bank of America National Trust and
                    Savings Association, the Chase Manhattan Bank, as Co-Agents,
                    and Citicorp Securities, Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities
                    Inc. Arrangers (4)

10.54               Second Amendment to Lease between Cisco Systems, Inc. and
                    Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc., dated February 24,
                    1998 (1)

10.55               Third Amendment to Lease between SGA Development
                    Partnership, LTD. and Cisco Systems, Inc., dated February
                    24, 1998 (1)

13.01               Pages 21 through 55 of the Registrant's 1999 Annual Report
                    to Shareholders

21.01               Subsidiaries of the Company

23.02               Consent of Independent Accountants

27                  Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>

(1)  Incorporated by reference to the exhibits with the corresponding exhibit
     numbers in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
     ended July 25, 1998.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of the Company's Form 8-K filed on
     June 11, 1998.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to exhibits with the corresponding exhibit
     numbers of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
     ended July 30, 1995.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to exhibits with the corresponding exhibit
     numbers of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
     ended July 26, 1997.

*    Management compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an
     exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


                                       30
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.1.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDMENT TO THE RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORP
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                  EXHIBIT 3.1.2

                            CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT
                  OF THE RESTATED ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OF
                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
                            a California Corporation



     The undersigned, John T. Chambers and David Rogan, hereby certify that:

     ONE: They are the duly elected and acting President and Assistant
Secretary, respectively, of said corporation.

     TWO: The Restated Articles of Incorporation of said corporation, filed on
January 7, 1998, shall be amended as set forth in this Certificate of Amendment.

     THREE: Section A of ARTICLE IV of the Restated Articles of Incorporation is
amended to read in its entirety as follows:

     "(A) Classes of Stock. This corporation is authorized to issue two classes
of stock to be designated, respectively, "Common Stock" and "Preferred Stock."
The total number of shares that the corporation is authorized to issue is Five
Billion Four Hundred and Five Million (5,405,000,000) shares. Five Billion Four
Hundred Million (5,400,000,000) shares shall be Common Stock, par value of
$0.001, and Five Million (5,000,000) shares shall be Preferred Stock.

     As of June 21, 1999, every one (1) share of Common Stock outstanding is
split into two (2) shares of Common Stock."

                                      * * *

     FOUR: The foregoing Certificate of Amendment has been duly approved by the
Board of Directors of the Corporation.

     FIVE: The foregoing Certificate of Amendment of the Restated Articles of
Incorporation does not require shareholder approval pursuant to Section 902(c)
of the General Corporation Law of the State of California. No shares of
Preferred Stock are outstanding.

<PAGE>   2

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have executed this Certificate of
Amendment on June __, 1999.

                                               ---------------------------------
                                               John T. Chambers
                                               President


                                               ---------------------------------
                                               David A. Rogan
                                               Assistant Secretary


     The undersigned certify under penalty of perjury that they have read the
foregoing Certificate of Amendment and know the contents thereof, and that the
statements therein are true.

     Executed at San Jose, California, on June __, 1999


                                               ---------------------------------
                                               John T. Chambers


                                               ---------------------------------
                                               David A. Rogan

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.2
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>CISCO SYSTEMS, INC. 1996 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.2


                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.
                            1996 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN


                 AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JULY 8, 1999


                                  ARTICLE ONE

                               GENERAL PROVISIONS


       I.      PURPOSE OF THE PLAN

               This 1996 Stock Incentive Plan is intended to promote the
interests of Cisco Systems, Inc., a California corporation, by providing
eligible persons with the opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest, or
otherwise increase their proprietary interest, in the Corporation as an
incentive for them to remain in the service of the Corporation.

               Capitalized terms shall have the meanings assigned to such terms
in the attached Appendix.

               All share numbers in this July 8, 1999 restatement reflect all
splits of the Common Stock effected through June 21, 1999, including (i) the
three (3)-for-two (2) split of Common Stock effected on December 16, 1997, (ii)
the three (3)-for-two (2) split of Common Stock effected on September 15, 1998
and (iii) the two (2)-for-one (1) spilt of Common Stock effected on June 21,
1999.

       II.     STRUCTURE OF THE PLAN

               A. The Plan shall be divided into two separate equity programs:

                      (i) the Discretionary Option Grant Program under which
        eligible persons may, at the discretion of the Plan Administrator, be
        granted options to purchase shares of Common Stock, and

                      (ii) the Automatic Option Grant Program under which
        eligible non-employee Board members shall automatically receive option
        grants at periodic intervals to purchase shares of Common Stock.

               B. The provisions of Articles One and Four shall apply to all
equity programs under the Plan and shall govern the interests of all persons
under the Plan.

       III.    ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN

<PAGE>   2

               A. The Primary Committee shall have sole and exclusive authority
to administer the Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to Section 16
Insiders.



                                       2.
<PAGE>   3

               B. Administration of the Discretionary Option Grant Program with
respect to all other persons eligible to participate in that program may, at the
Board's discretion, be vested in the Primary Committee or a Secondary Committee,
or the Board may retain the power to administer that program with respect to all
such persons. The members of the Secondary Committee may be Board members who
are Employees eligible to receive discretionary option grants under the Plan or
any other stock option, stock appreciation, stock bonus or other stock plan of
the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).

               C. Members of the Primary Committee or any Secondary Committee
shall serve for such period of time as the Board may determine and may be
removed by the Board at any time. The Board may also at any time terminate the
functions of any Secondary Committee and reassume all powers and authority
previously delegated to such committee.

               D. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its
administrative functions under the Plan, have full power and authority (subject
to the provisions of the Plan) to establish such rules and regulations as it may
deem appropriate for proper administration of the Discretionary Option Grant
Program and to make such determinations under, and issue such interpretations
of, the provisions of such programs and any outstanding options thereunder as it
may deem necessary or advisable. Decisions of the Plan Administrator within the
scope of its administrative functions under the Plan shall be final and binding
on all parties who have an interest in the Discretionary Option Grant Program
under its jurisdiction or any option or stock issuance thereunder.

               E. Service on the Primary Committee or the Secondary Committee
shall constitute service as a Board member, and members of each such committee
shall accordingly be entitled to full indemnification and reimbursement as Board
members for their service on such committee. No member of the Primary Committee
or the Secondary Committee shall be liable for any act or omission made in good
faith with respect to the Plan or any option grants under the Plan.

               F. Administration of the Automatic Option Grant Program shall be
self-executing in accordance with the terms of that program, and no Plan
Administrator shall exercise any discretionary functions with respect to any
option grants made under that program.

       IV.     ELIGIBILITY

               A. The persons eligible to participate in the Discretionary
Option Grant Program are as follows:

                      (i) Employees,

                      (ii) non-employee members of the Board or the board of
        directors of any Parent or Subsidiary, and

                      (iii) consultants and other independent advisors who
        provide services to the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary).



                                       3.
<PAGE>   4

               B. Each Plan Administrator shall, within the scope of its
administrative jurisdiction under the Plan, have full authority to determine
which eligible persons are to receive option grants under the Discretionary
Option Grant Program, the time or times when such option grants are to be made,
the number of shares to be covered by each such grant, the status of the granted
option as either an Incentive Option or a Non-Statutory Option, the time or
times when each option is to become exercisable, the vesting schedule (if any)
applicable to the option shares and the maximum term for which the option is to
remain outstanding.

               C. The individuals who shall be eligible to participate in the
Automatic Option Grant Program shall be limited to (i) those individuals serving
as non-employee Board members on the Plan Effective Date, (ii) those individuals
who first become non-employee Board members on or after the Plan Effective Date,
whether through appointment by the Board or election by the Corporation's
shareholders, and (iii) those individuals who continue to serve as non-employee
Board members at one or more Annual Shareholders Meetings held after the Plan
Effective Date. A non-employee Board member who has previously been in the
employ of the Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall not be eligible to
receive an option grant under the Automatic Option Grant Program at the time he
or she first becomes a non-employee Board member, but shall be eligible to
receive periodic option grants under the Automatic Option Grant Program while he
or she continues to serve as a non-employee Board member.

       V.      STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

               A. The stock issuable under the Plan shall be shares of
authorized but unissued or reacquired Common Stock, including shares repurchased
by the Corporation on the open market. The maximum number of shares of Common
Stock reserved for issuance over the term of the Plan shall not exceed
745,113,564 shares, subject to the automatic share increases described in
Paragraph V.B. below. Such share reserve consists of the number of shares of
Common Stock transferred from the Predecessor Plan, as of the Plan Effective
Date (309,762,450), plus the number of shares added to the reserve in the
automatic share increases that occurred in December 1996, December 1997 and
December 1998 (435,351,114 shares).

               B. The number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance
under the Plan shall automatically increase on the first trading day of fiscal
December each calendar year, beginning with fiscal December in calendar year
1996 and continuing through fiscal December in calendar year 2001, by a number
of shares equal to four and three-quarters percent (4.75%) of the total number
of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the last trading day in the immediately
preceding fiscal November, but in no event shall any such annual increase exceed
240,000,000 shares.

               C. No one person participating in the Plan may receive stock
options or separately exercisable stock appreciation rights for more than
9,000,000 shares of Common Stock in the aggregate per calendar year.



                                       4.
<PAGE>   5

               D. Shares of Common Stock subject to outstanding options
(including options incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plan) shall
be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan to the extent those options
expire or terminate for any reason prior to exercise in full. Unvested shares
issued under the Plan and subsequently cancelled or repurchased by the
Corporation, at the original issue price paid per share, pursuant to the
Corporation's repurchase rights under the Plan shall be added back to the number
of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan and shall
accordingly be available for reissuance through one or more subsequent option
grants under the Plan. However, should the exercise price of an option under the
Plan be paid with shares of Common Stock or should shares of Common Stock
otherwise issuable under the Plan be withheld by the Corporation in satisfaction
of the withholding taxes incurred in connection with the exercise of an option
or the vesting of a stock issuance under the Plan, then the number of shares of
Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the gross
number of shares for which the option is exercised or which vest under the stock
issuance, and not by the net number of shares of Common Stock issued to the
holder of such option or stock issuance. Shares of Common Stock underlying one
or more stock appreciation rights exercised under Section IV of Article Two of
the Plan shall NOT be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.

               E. If any change is made to the Common Stock by reason of any
stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange
of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Common Stock as a class
without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments
shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable
under the Plan, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities for which any
one person may be granted stock options or separately exercisable stock
appreciation rights in the aggregate under the Plan per calendar year, (iii) the
number and/or class of securities for which grants are subsequently to be made
under the Automatic Option Grant Program to new and continuing non-employee
Board members, unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise, (iv) the
number and/or class of securities and the exercise price per share in effect
under each outstanding option under the Plan and (v) the number and/or class of
securities and price per share in effect under each outstanding option
incorporated into this Plan from the Predecessor Plan. Such adjustments to the
outstanding options are to be effected in a manner which shall preclude the
enlargement or dilution of rights and benefits under such options. The
adjustments determined by the Plan Administrator shall be final, binding and
conclusive.



                                       5.
<PAGE>   6

                                  ARTICLE TWO

                       DISCRETIONARY OPTION GRANT PROGRAM


       I.      OPTION TERMS

               Each option shall be evidenced by one or more documents in the
form approved by the Plan Administrator; provided, however, that each such
document shall comply with the terms specified below. Each document evidencing
an Incentive Option shall, in addition, be subject to the provisions of the Plan
applicable to such options.

               A.      EXERCISE PRICE.

                       1. The exercise price per share shall be fixed by the
Plan Administrator but shall not be less than one hundred percent (100%) of the
Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the option grant date.

                       2. The exercise price shall become immediately due upon
exercise of the option and shall, subject to the provisions of Section I of
Article Four and the documents evidencing the option, be payable in one or more
of the forms specified below:

                           (i) cash or check made payable to the Corporation,

                           (ii) shares of Common Stock held for the requisite
        period necessary to avoid a charge to the Corporation's earnings for
        financial reporting purposes and valued at Fair Market Value on the
        Exercise Date, or

                           (iii) to the extent the option is exercised for
        vested shares, through a special sale and remittance procedure pursuant
        to which the Optionee shall concurrently provide irrevocable
        instructions to (a) a Corporation-designated brokerage firm to effect
        the immediate sale of the purchased shares and remit to the Corporation,
        out of the sale proceeds available on the settlement date, sufficient
        funds to cover the aggregate exercise price payable for the purchased
        shares plus all applicable Federal, state and local income and
        employment taxes required to be withheld by the Corporation by reason of
        such exercise and (b) the Corporation to deliver the certificates for
        the purchased shares directly to such brokerage firm in order to
        complete the sale.

               Except to the extent such sale and remittance procedure is
utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on
the Exercise Date.



                                       6.
<PAGE>   7

               B. EXERCISE AND TERM OF OPTIONS. Each option shall be exercisable
at such time or times, during such period and for such number of shares as shall
be determined by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the documents
evidencing the option. However, no option shall have a term in excess of nine
(9) years measured from the option grant date.

               C. EFFECT OF TERMINATION OF SERVICE.

                       1. The following provisions shall govern the exercise of
any options held by the Optionee at the time of cessation of Service or death:

                           (i) Any option outstanding at the time of the
        Optionee's cessation of Service for any reason shall remain exercisable
        for such period of time thereafter as shall be determined by the Plan
        Administrator and set forth in the documents evidencing the option, but
        no such option shall be exercisable after the expiration of the option
        term.

                           (ii) Any option exercisable in whole or in part by
        the Optionee at the time of death may be subsequently exercised by the
        personal representative of the Optionee's estate or by the person or
        persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to the Optionee's
        will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution.

                           (iii) Should the Optionee's Service be terminated for
        Misconduct, then all outstanding options held by the Optionee shall
        terminate immediately and cease to be outstanding.

                           (iv) During the applicable post-Service exercise
        period, the option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than
        the number of vested shares for which the option is exercisable on the
        date of the Optionee's cessation of Service. Upon the expiration of the
        applicable exercise period or (if earlier) upon the expiration of the
        option term, the option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding for
        any vested shares for which the option has not been exercised. However,
        the option shall, immediately upon the Optionee's cessation of Service,
        terminate and cease to be outstanding to the extent the option is not
        otherwise at that time exercisable for vested shares.

               D. The Plan Administrator shall have complete discretion,
exercisable either at the time an option is granted or at any time while the
option remains outstanding, to:

                           (i) extend the period of time for which the option is
        to remain exercisable following the Optionee's cessation of Service from
        the limited exercise period otherwise in effect for that option to such
        greater period of time as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate,
        but in no event beyond the expiration of the option term, and/or



                                       7.
<PAGE>   8

                           (ii) permit the option to be exercised, during the
        applicable post-Service exercise period, not only with respect to the
        number of vested shares of Common Stock for which such option is
        exercisable at the time of the Optionee's cessation of Service but also
        with respect to one or more additional installments in which the
        Optionee would have vested had the Optionee continued in Service.

               E. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS. The holder of an option shall have no
shareholder rights with respect to the shares subject to the option until such
person shall have exercised the option, paid the exercise price and become a
holder of record of the purchased shares.

               F. REPURCHASE RIGHTS. The Plan Administrator shall have the
discretion to grant options which are exercisable for unvested shares of Common
Stock. Should the Optionee cease Service while holding such unvested shares, the
Corporation shall have the right to repurchase, at the exercise price paid per
share, any or all of those unvested shares. The terms upon which such repurchase
right shall be exercisable (including the period and procedure for exercise and
the appropriate vesting schedule for the purchased shares) shall be established
by the Plan Administrator and set forth in the document evidencing such
repurchase right.

               G. LIMITED TRANSFERABILITY OF OPTIONS. During the lifetime of the
Optionee, Incentive Options shall be exercisable only by the Optionee and shall
not be assignable or transferable other than by will or by the laws of
inheritance following the Optionee's death. However, a Non-Statutory Option may
be assigned in whole or in part during the Optionee's lifetime to one or more
members of the Optionee's immediate family or to a trust established exclusively
for one or more such family members or to one or more individuals, to the extent
such assignment is in connection with the Optionee's estate plan or pursuant to
a domestic relations order. The assigned portion may only be exercised by the
person or persons who acquire a proprietary interest in the option pursuant to
the assignment. The terms applicable to the assigned portion shall be the same
as those in effect for the option immediately prior to such assignment and shall
be set forth in such documents issued to the assignee as the Plan Administrator
may deem appropriate.

       II.     INCENTIVE OPTIONS

               The terms specified below shall be applicable to all Incentive
Options. Except as modified by the provisions of this Section II, all the
provisions of Articles One, Two and Four shall be applicable to Incentive
Options. Options designated as Non-Statutory Options when issued under the Plan
shall not be subject to the terms of this Section II.

               A. ELIGIBILITY. Incentive Options may only be granted to
Employees.



                                       8.
<PAGE>   9

               B. DOLLAR LIMITATION. The aggregate Fair Market Value of the
shares of Common Stock (determined as of the respective date or dates of grant)
for which one or more options granted to any Employee under the Plan (or any
other option plan of the Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary) may for the
first time become exercisable as Incentive Options during any one calendar year
shall not exceed the sum of One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000). To the
extent the Employee holds two (2) or more such options which become exercisable
for the first time in the same calendar year, the foregoing limitation on the
exercisability of such options as Incentive Options shall be applied on the
basis of the order in which such options are granted.

               C. 10% SHAREHOLDER. If any Employee to whom an Incentive Option
is granted is a 10% Shareholder, then the exercise price per share shall not be
less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value per share of
Common Stock on the option grant date, and the option term shall not exceed five
(5) years measured from the option grant date.

       III.    CORPORATE TRANSACTION/CHANGE IN CONTROL

               A. In the event of any Corporate Transaction, each outstanding
option shall automatically accelerate so that each such option shall,
immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become
exercisable for all of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such
option and may be exercised for any or all of those shares as fully-vested
shares of Common Stock. However, an outstanding option shall not so accelerate
if and to the extent: (i) such option is, in connection with the Corporate
Transaction, either to be assumed by the successor corporation (or parent
thereof) or to be replaced with a comparable option to purchase shares of the
capital stock of the successor corporation (or parent thereof), (ii) such option
is to be replaced with a cash incentive program of the successor corporation
which preserves the spread existing on the unvested option shares at the time of
the Corporate Transaction and provides for subsequent payout in accordance with
the same vesting schedule applicable to those option shares or (iii) the
acceleration of such option is subject to other limitations imposed by the Plan
Administrator at the time of the option grant. The determination of option
comparability under clause (i) above shall be made by the Plan Administrator,
and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.

               B. All outstanding repurchase rights shall also terminate
automatically, and the shares of Common Stock subject to those terminated rights
shall immediately vest in full, in the event of any Corporate Transaction,
except to the extent: (i) those repurchase rights are to be assigned to the
successor corporation (or parent thereof) in connection with such Corporate
Transaction or (ii) such accelerated vesting is precluded by other limitations
imposed by the Plan Administrator at the time the repurchase right is issued.

               C. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate
Transaction, all outstanding options shall terminate and cease to be
outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or
parent thereof).



                                       9.
<PAGE>   10

               D. Each option which is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate
Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have
been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction.
Appropriate adjustments to reflect such Corporate Transaction shall also be made
to (i) the exercise price payable per share under each outstanding option,
provided the aggregate exercise price payable for such securities shall remain
the same, (ii) the maximum number and/or class of securities available for
issuance over the remaining term of the Plan and (iii) the maximum number and/or
class of securities for which any one person may be granted stock options or
separately exercisable stock appreciation rights under the Plan per calendar
year.

               E. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to
grant options under the Discretionary Option Grant Program which will
automatically accelerate in the event the Optionee's Service subsequently
terminates by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period
(not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any
Corporate Transaction in which those options are assumed or replaced and do not
otherwise accelerate. Any options so accelerated shall remain exercisable for
fully-vested shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the option
term. In addition, the Plan Administrator may provide that one or more of the
Corporation's outstanding repurchase rights with respect to shares held by the
Optionee at the time of such Involuntary Termination shall immediately
terminate, and the shares subject to those terminated repurchase rights shall
accordingly vest in full.

               F. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority to
grant options under the Discretionary Option Grant Program which will
automatically accelerate in the event the Optionee's Service subsequently
terminates by reason of an Involuntary Termination within a designated period
(not to exceed eighteen (18) months) following the effective date of any Change
in Control. Each option so accelerated shall remain exercisable for fully-vested
shares until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term. In
addition, the Plan Administrator may provide that one or more of the
Corporation's outstanding repurchase rights with respect to shares held by the
Optionee at the time of such Involuntary Termination shall immediately
terminate, and the shares subject to those terminated repurchase rights shall
accordingly vest in full.

               G. The portion of any Incentive Option accelerated in connection
with a Corporate Transaction or Change in Control shall remain exercisable as an
Incentive Option only to the extent the applicable One Hundred Thousand Dollar
limitation is not exceeded. To the extent such dollar limitation is exceeded,
the accelerated portion of such option shall be exercisable as a Non-Statutory
Option under the Federal tax laws.



                                      10.
<PAGE>   11

               H. The outstanding options shall in no way affect the right of
the Corporation to adjust, reclassify, reorganize or otherwise change its
capital or business structure or to merge, consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or
sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.

       IV.     STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS

               A. The Plan Administrator shall have full power and authority,
exercisable in its sole discretion, to grant to selected Optionees or other
individuals eligible to receive option grants under the Discretionary Option
Grant Program stock appreciation rights.

               B. Three types of stock appreciation rights shall be authorized
for issuance under the Plan: (i) tandem stock appreciation rights ("Tandem
Rights"), (ii) stand-alone stock appreciation rights ("Stand-alone Rights") and
(iii) limited stock appreciation rights ("Limited Rights").

               C. The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and
exercise of Tandem Rights under this Article Two.

                       1. One or more Optionees may be granted a Tandem Right,
exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Plan Administrator may
establish, to elect between the exercise of the underlying Article Two stock
option for shares of Common Stock or the surrender of that option in exchange
for a distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the excess of (i)
the Fair Market Value (on the option surrender date) of the number of shares in
which the Optionee is at the time vested under the surrendered option (or
surrendered portion thereof) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for
such vested shares.

                       2. No such option surrender shall be effective unless it
is approved by the Plan Administrator, either at the time of the actual option
surrender or at any earlier time. If the surrender is so approved, then the
distribution to which the Optionee shall accordingly become entitled under this
Section V may be made in shares of Common Stock valued at Fair Market Value on
the option surrender date, in cash, or partly in shares and partly in cash, as
the Plan Administrator shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.

                       3. If the surrender of an option is not approved by the
Plan Administrator, then the Optionee shall retain whatever rights the Optionee
had under the surrendered option (or surrendered portion thereof) on the option
surrender date and may exercise such rights at any time prior to the later of
(i) five (5) business days after the receipt of the rejection notice or (ii) the
last day on which the option is otherwise exercisable in accordance with the
terms of the instrument evidencing such option, but in no event may such rights
be exercised more than nine (9) years after the date of the option grant.

               D. The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and
exercise of Stand-alone Rights under this Article Two:



                                      11.
<PAGE>   12

                       1. One or more individuals eligible to participate in the
Discretionary Option Grant Program may be granted a Stand-alone Right not tied
to any underlying option under this Discretionary Option Grant Program. The
Stand-alone Right shall cover a specified number of underlying shares of Common
Stock and shall be exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Plan
Administrator may establish. Upon exercise of the Stand-alone Right, the holder
shall be entitled to receive a distribution from the Corporation in an amount
equal to the excess of (i) the aggregate Fair Market Value (on the exercise
date) of the shares of Common Stock underlying the exercised right over (ii) the
aggregate base price in effect for those shares.

                       2. The number of shares of Common Stock underlying each
Stand-alone Right and the base price in effect for those shares shall be
determined by the Plan Administrator in its sole discretion at the time the
Stand-alone Right is granted. In no event, however, may the base price per share
be less than the Fair Market Value per underlying share of Common Stock on the
grant date.

                       3. The distribution with respect to an exercised
Stand-alone Right may be made in shares of Common Stock valued at Fair Market
Value on the exercise date, in cash, or partly in shares and partly in cash, as
the Plan Administrator shall in its sole discretion deem appropriate.

               E. The following terms and conditions shall govern the grant and
exercise of Limited Rights under this Article Two:

                       1. One or more Section 16 Insiders may, in the Plan
Administrator's sole discretion, be granted Limited Rights with respect to their
outstanding options under this Article Two.

                       2. Upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over, the
Section 16 Insider shall have the unconditional right (exercisable for a thirty
(30)-day period following such Hostile Take-Over) to surrender each option with
such a Limited Right to the Corporation, to the extent the option is at the time
exercisable for fully vested shares of Common Stock. The Section 16 Insider
shall in return be entitled to a cash distribution from the Corporation in an
amount equal to the excess of (i) the Take-Over Price of the vested shares of
Common Stock at the time subject to each surrendered option (or surrendered
portion of such option) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable for such
vested shares. Such cash distribution shall be made within five (5) days
following the option surrender date.

                       3. The Plan Administrator shall pre-approve, at the time
such Limited Right is granted, the subsequent exercise of that right in
accordance with the terms of the grant and the provisions of this Section IV. No
additional approval of the Plan Administrator or the Board shall be required at
the time of the actual option surrender and cash distribution. Any unsurrendered
portion of the option shall continue to remain outstanding and become
exercisable in accordance with the terms of the instrument evidencing such
grant.

               F. The shares of Common Stock underlying any stock appreciation
rights exercised under this Section IV shall NOT be available for subsequent
issuance under the Plan.



                                      12.
<PAGE>   13
                                 ARTICLE THREE

                         AUTOMATIC OPTION GRANT PROGRAM


               The following terms and provisions reflect the amendment to the
Automatic Option Grant Program authorized by the Board on July 8, 1999, subject
to shareholder approval at the 1999 Annual Meeting. Accordingly, such terms and
provisions shall only become effective upon such shareholder approval, and if
such shareholder approval is not obtained, the terms and provisions of the
Automatic Option Grant Program as in effect immediately prior to the July 8,
1999 amendment shall automatically be reinstated.

       I.      OPTION TERMS

               A. GRANT DATES. Option grants under this Article Three shall be
made on the dates specified below:

                       1. Each individual who is first elected or appointed as a
non-employee Board member on or after the date of the 1999 Annual Shareholders
Meeting shall automatically be granted, on the date of such initial election or
appointment, a Non-Statutory Option to purchase 30,000 shares of Common
Stock(1), provided that individual has not previously been in the employ of the
Corporation or any Parent or Subsidiary.

                       2. On the date of each Annual Shareholders Meeting,
beginning with the 1999 Annual Shareholders Meeting, each individual who is
re-elected to serve as an Eligible Director shall automatically be granted a
Non-Statutory Option to purchase 15,000 shares of Common Stock(2), provided such
individual has served as a non-employee Board member for at least six (6)
months. There shall be no limit on the number of such 30,000-share option grants
any one Eligible Director may receive over his or her period of Board service,
and non-employee Board members who have previously been in the employ of the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) shall be eligible to receive one or
more such annual option grants over their period of continued Board service.

               B.      EXERCISE PRICE.

                       1. The exercise price per share shall be equal to one
hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the
option grant date.



- --------
(1) Prior to this July 8, 1999 restatement, the number of shares of Common Stock
    for which an initial option grant was to be made to each newly elected or
    appointed non-employee Board member was set at 20,000 shares.


(2) Prior to this July 8, 1999 restatement, the number of shares of Common Stock
    for which a continuing non-employee Board member was to be granted an option
    at each annual shareholders meeting at which he or she was re-elected to the
    Board was set at 10,000 shares.



                                      13.
<PAGE>   14

                       2. The exercise price shall be payable in one or more of
the alternative forms authorized under the Discretionary Option Grant Program.
Except to the extent the sale and remittance procedure specified thereunder is
utilized, payment of the exercise price for the purchased shares must be made on
the Exercise Date.

               C. OPTION TERM. Each option shall have a maximum term equal to
the lesser of (i) nine (9) years measured from the option grant date or (ii)
twelve (12) months following termination of Board service.

               D. EXERCISE AND VESTING OF OPTIONS. Each option shall be
immediately exercisable for any or all of the option shares. However, any shares
purchased under the option shall be subject to repurchase by the Corporation, at
the exercise price paid per share, upon the Optionee's cessation of Board
service prior to vesting in those shares. Each initial 30,000-share grant shall
vest, and the Corporation's repurchase right with respect to those shares shall
lapse, in four (4) successive equal annual installments over the Optionee's
period of Board service, with the first such installment to vest upon the
completion of one (1) year of Board service measured from the automatic grant
date. Each annual 15,000-share grant shall vest, and the Corporation's
repurchase right with respect to those shares shall lapse, in two (2) successive
equal annual installments over the optionee's period of Board service measured
from the automatic grant date.

               E. TERMINATION OF BOARD SERVICE. The following provisions shall
govern the exercise of any options held by the Optionee upon his or her
cessation of Board service:

                           (i) The Optionee (or, in the event of Optionee's
        death, the personal representative of the Optionee's estate or the
        person or persons to whom the option is transferred pursuant to the
        Optionee's will or the laws of inheritance) shall have a twelve
        (12)-month period following the date of such cessation of Board service
        in which to exercise each such option.

                           (ii) During the twelve (12)-month exercise period,
        the option may not be exercised in the aggregate for more than the
        number of vested shares of Common Stock for which the option is
        exercisable at the time of the Optionee's cessation of Board service.

                           (iii) Should the Optionee cease to serve as a Board
        member by reason of death or Permanent Disability, then all shares at
        the time subject to the option shall immediately vest so that such
        option may, during the twelve (12)-month exercise period following such
        cessation of Board service, be exercised for all or any portion of those
        shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock.

                           (iv) In no event shall the option remain exercisable
        after the expiration of the option term. Upon the expiration of the
        twelve (12)-month exercise period or (if earlier) upon the expiration of
        the option term, the option shall terminate and cease to be outstanding
        for any vested shares for which the option has not been exercised.
        However, the option shall, immediately upon the



                                      14.
<PAGE>   15

        Optionee's cessation of Board service for any reason other than death or
        Permanent Disability, terminate and cease to be outstanding to the
        extent the option is not otherwise at that time exercisable for vested
        shares.

       II.     CORPORATE TRANSACTION/CHANGE IN CONTROL/ HOSTILE TAKE-OVER

               A. In the event of any Corporate Transaction, the shares of
Common Stock at the time subject to each outstanding option but not otherwise
vested shall automatically vest in full so that each such option shall,
immediately prior to the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, become
exercisable for all of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such
option and may be exercised for any or all of those shares as fully-vested
shares of Common Stock. Immediately following the consummation of the Corporate
Transaction, each automatic option grant shall terminate and cease to be
outstanding, except to the extent assumed by the successor corporation (or
parent thereof).

               B. In connection with any Change in Control, the shares of Common
Stock at the time subject to each outstanding option but not otherwise vested
shall automatically vest in full so that each such option shall, immediately
prior to the effective date of the Change in Control, become exercisable for all
of the shares of Common Stock at the time subject to such option and may be
exercised for any or all of those shares as fully-vested shares of Common Stock.
Each such option shall remain exercisable for such fully-vested option shares
until the expiration or sooner termination of the option term or the surrender
of the option in connection with a Hostile Take-Over.

               C. Upon the occurrence of a Hostile Take-Over, the Optionee shall
have a thirty (30)-day period in which to surrender to the Corporation each of
his or her outstanding automatic option grants. The Optionee shall in return be
entitled to a cash distribution from the Corporation in an amount equal to the
excess of (i) the Take-Over Price of the shares of Common Stock at the time
subject to each surrendered option (whether or not the Optionee is otherwise at
the time vested in those shares) over (ii) the aggregate exercise price payable
for such shares. Such cash distribution shall be paid within five (5) days
following the surrender of the option to the Corporation. Shareholder approval
of this July 8, 1999 restatement shall also constitute pre-approval of each
option grant with such a cash surrender right made under the Automatic Option
Grant Program on or after the date of the 1999 Annual Meeting and the subsequent
exercise of that right in accordance with the provisions of this Section II.C,
and no additional approval of the Board or any Plan Administrator shall
accordingly be required at the time of the actual option surrender and cash
distribution.

               D. Each option which is assumed in connection with a Corporate
Transaction shall be appropriately adjusted, immediately after such Corporate
Transaction, to apply to the number and class of securities which would have
been issuable to the Optionee in consummation of such Corporate Transaction had
the option been exercised immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction.
Appropriate adjustments shall also be made to the exercise price payable per
share under each outstanding option, provided the aggregate exercise price
payable for such securities shall remain the same.



                                      15.
<PAGE>   16

               E. The grant of options under the Automatic Option Grant Program
shall in no way affect the right of the Corporation to adjust, reclassify,
reorganize or otherwise change its capital or business structure or to merge,
consolidate, dissolve, liquidate or sell or transfer all or any part of its
business or assets.

       III.    REMAINING TERMS

               The remaining terms of each option granted under the Automatic
Option Grant Program shall be the same as the terms in effect for option grants
made under the Discretionary Option Grant Program.



                                      16.
<PAGE>   17

                                  ARTICLE FOUR

                                  MISCELLANEOUS


       I.      FINANCING

               The Plan Administrator may permit any Optionee to pay the option
exercise price under the Discretionary Option Grant Program by delivering a
full-recourse, interest bearing promissory note payable in one or more
installments. The terms of any such promissory note (including the interest rate
and the terms of repayment) shall be established by the Plan Administrator in
its sole discretion. In no event may the maximum credit available to the
Optionee exceed the sum of (i) the aggregate option exercise price payable for
the purchased shares plus (ii) any Federal, state and local income and
employment tax liability incurred by the Optionee in connection with the option
exercise or share purchase.

       II.     TAX WITHHOLDING

               A. The Corporation's obligation to deliver shares of Common Stock
upon the exercise of options under the Plan shall be subject to the satisfaction
of all applicable Federal, state and local income and employment tax withholding
requirements.

               B. The Plan Administrator may, in its discretion, provide any or
all holders of Non-Statutory Options under the Discretionary Option Grant
Program with the right to use shares of Common Stock in satisfaction of all or
part of the Withholding Taxes to which such holders may become subject in
connection with the exercise of their options. Such right may be provided to any
such holder in either or both of the following formats:

                      Stock Withholding: The election to have the Corporation
               withhold, from the shares of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon
               the exercise of such Non-Statutory Option, a portion of those
               shares with an aggregate Fair Market Value equal to the
               percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to exceed one hundred
               percent (100%)) designated by the holder.

                      Stock Delivery: The election to deliver to the
               Corporation, at the time the Non-Statutory Option is exercised,
               one or more shares of Common Stock previously acquired by such
               holder (other than in connection with the option exercise
               triggering the Withholding Taxes) with an aggregate Fair Market
               Value equal to the percentage of the Withholding Taxes (not to
               exceed one hundred percent (100%)) designated by the holder.



                                      17.
<PAGE>   18

       III.    EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM OF THE PLAN

               A. The Plan and each of the equity incentive programs thereunder
shall become effective immediately upon the approval of the Corporation's
shareholders at the 1996 Annual Meeting. Options may be granted under the Plan
at any time on or after the date of such shareholder approval. If such
shareholder approval is not obtained, then this Plan shall not become effective,
and no options shall be granted and no shares shall be issued under the Plan.

               B. The Plan shall serve as the successor to the Predecessor Plan,
and no further option grants shall be made under the Predecessor Plan after this
Plan is approved by the shareholders at the 1996 Annual Meeting. All options
outstanding under the Predecessor Plan at the time of such shareholder approval
shall be incorporated into the Plan at that time and shall be treated as
outstanding options under the Plan. However, each outstanding option so
incorporated shall continue to be governed solely by the terms of the documents
evidencing such option, and no provision of the Plan shall be deemed to affect
or otherwise modify the rights or obligations of the holders of such
incorporated options with respect to their acquisition of shares of Common
Stock.

               C. One or more provisions of the Plan, including (without
limitation) the option/vesting acceleration provisions of Article Two relating
to Corporate Transactions and Changes in Control, may, in the Plan
Administrator's discretion, be extended to one or more options incorporated from
the Predecessor Plan which do not otherwise contain such provisions.

               D. The Plan shall terminate upon the earliest of (i) December 31,
2006, (ii) the date on which all shares available for issuance under the Plan
shall have been issued as fully-vested shares or (iii) the termination of all
outstanding options in connection with a Corporate Transaction. Upon such plan
termination, all outstanding option grants shall thereafter continue to have
force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the documents evidencing
such grants.

       IV.     AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN

               A. The Board shall have complete and exclusive power and
authority to amend or modify the Plan in any or all respects. However, no such
amendment or modification shall adversely affect the rights and obligations with
respect to stock options at the time outstanding under the Plan unless the
Optionee consents to such amendment or modification. In addition, certain
amendments may require shareholder approval in accordance with applicable laws
and regulations.

               B. The Plan was amended by the Board on July 29, 1998 and
approved by the Shareholders at the 1998 Annual Shareholders Meeting, in order
to extend the automatic share increase provisions of the Plan for an additional
three (3)-year through fiscal December in calendar year 2001. The Automatic
Option Grant Program in effect under the Plan was amended by the Board on July
8, 1999 in order to increase the number of shares of Common Stock for



                                      18.
<PAGE>   19

which newly elected or appointed non-employee Board members and continuing
non-employee Board members may be granted stock options under such program. Such
amendment, however, is subject to shareholder approval at the 1999 Annual
Meeting and will not be implemented unless such shareholder approval is
obtained.

               C. Options to purchase shares of Common Stock may be granted
under the Discretionary Option Grant Program that are in excess of the number of
shares then available for issuance under the Plan, provided any excess shares
actually issued under that program shall be held in escrow until there is
obtained shareholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number
of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan. If such
shareholder approval is not obtained within twelve (12) months after the date
the first such excess issuances are made, then (i) any unexercised options
granted on the basis of such excess shares shall terminate and cease to be
outstanding and (ii) the Corporation shall promptly refund to the Optionees the
exercise or purchase price paid for any excess shares issued under the Plan and
held in escrow, together with interest (at the applicable Short Term Federal
Rate) for the period the shares were held in escrow, and such shares shall
thereupon be automatically cancelled and cease to be outstanding.

       V.      USE OF PROCEEDS

               Any cash proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of
shares of Common Stock under the Plan shall be used for general corporate
purposes.

       VI.     REGULATORY APPROVALS

               A. The implementation of the Plan, the granting of any stock
option under the Plan and the issuance of any shares of Common Stock upon the
exercise of any granted option shall be subject to the Corporation's procurement
of all approvals and permits required by regulatory authorities having
jurisdiction over the Plan, the stock options granted under it and the shares of
Common Stock issued pursuant to it.

               B. No shares of Common Stock or other assets shall be issued or
delivered under the Plan unless and until there shall have been compliance with
all applicable requirements of Federal and state securities laws, including the
filing and effectiveness of the Form S-8 registration statement for the shares
of Common Stock issuable under the Plan, and all applicable listing requirements
of any stock exchange (or the Nasdaq National Market, if applicable) on which
Common Stock is then listed for trading.

       VII.    NO EMPLOYMENT/SERVICE RIGHTS

               Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon the Optionee any right to
continue in Service for any period of specific duration or interfere with or
otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Corporation (or any Parent or
Subsidiary employing or retaining such person) or of the Optionee, which rights
are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate such person's Service at any
time for any reason, with or without cause.



                                      19.
<PAGE>   20

                                    APPENDIX


               The following definitions shall be in effect under the Plan:

               A. AUTOMATIC OPTION GRANT PROGRAM shall mean the automatic option
grant program in effect under Article Three of the Plan.

               B. BOARD shall mean the Corporation's Board of Directors.

               C. CHANGE IN CONTROL shall mean a change in ownership or control
of the Corporation effected through either of the following transactions:

                      (i) the acquisition, directly or indirectly by any person
        or related group of persons (other than the Corporation or a person that
        directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common
        control with, the Corporation), of beneficial ownership (within the
        meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more
        than thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the
        Corporation's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange
        offer made directly to the Corporation's shareholders which the Board
        does not recommend such shareholders to accept, or

                      (ii) a change in the composition of the Board over a
        period of thirty-six (36) consecutive months or less such that a
        majority of the Board members ceases, by reason of one or more contested
        elections for Board membership, to be comprised of individuals who
        either (A) have been Board members continuously since the beginning of
        such period or (B) have been elected or nominated for election as Board
        members during such period by at least a majority of the Board members
        described in clause (A) who were still in office at the time the Board
        approved such election or nomination.

               D. CODE shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.

               E. COMMON STOCK shall mean the Corporation's common stock.

               F. CORPORATE TRANSACTION shall mean either of the following
shareholder-approved transactions to which the Corporation is a party:

                      (i) a merger or consolidation in which securities
        possessing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting
        power of the Corporation's outstanding securities are transferred to a
        person or persons different from the persons holding those securities
        immediately prior to such transaction, or

                      (ii) the sale, transfer or other disposition of all or
        substantially all of the Corporation's assets in complete liquidation or
        dissolution of the Corporation.



                                      A-1.
<PAGE>   21

               G. CORPORATION shall mean Cisco Systems, Inc., a California
corporation, and its successors.

               H. DISCRETIONARY OPTION GRANT PROGRAM shall mean the
discretionary option grant program in effect under Article Two of the Plan.

               I. ELIGIBLE DIRECTOR shall mean a non-employee Board member
eligible to participate in the Automatic Option Grant Program in accordance with
the eligibility provisions of Article One.

               J. EMPLOYEE shall mean an individual who is in the employ of the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary), subject to the control and direction
of the employer entity as to both the work to be performed and the manner and
method of performance.

               K. EXERCISE DATE shall mean the date on which the Corporation
shall have received written notice of the option exercise.

               L. FAIR MARKET VALUE per share of Common Stock on any relevant
date shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:

                      (i) If the Common Stock is at the time traded on the
        Nasdaq National Market, then the Fair Market Value shall be deemed equal
        to the closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in
        question, as such price is reported on the Nasdaq National Market. If
        there is no closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in
        question, then the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price
        on the last preceding date for which such quotation exists.

                      (ii) If the Common Stock is at the time listed on any
        Stock Exchange, then the Fair Market Value shall be deemed equal to the
        closing selling price per share of Common Stock on the date in question
        on the Stock Exchange determined by the Plan Administrator to be the
        primary market for the Common Stock, as such price is officially quoted
        in the composite tape of transactions on such exchange. If there is no
        closing selling price for the Common Stock on the date in question, then
        the Fair Market Value shall be the closing selling price on the last
        preceding date for which such quotation exists.

               M. HOSTILE TAKE-OVER shall mean the acquisition, directly or
indirectly, by any person or related group of persons (other than the
Corporation or a person that directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by,
or is under common control with, the Corporation) of beneficial ownership
(within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the 1934 Act) of securities possessing more
than thirty-five percent (35%) of the total combined voting power of the
Corporation's outstanding securities pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made
directly to the Corporation's shareholders which the Board does not recommend
such shareholders to accept.



                                      A-2.
<PAGE>   22

               N. INCENTIVE OPTION shall mean an option which satisfies the
requirements of Code Section 422.

               O. INVOLUNTARY TERMINATION shall mean the termination of the
Service of any individual which occurs by reason of:

                      (i) such individual's involuntary dismissal or discharge
        by the Corporation for reasons other than Misconduct, or

                      (ii) such individual's voluntary resignation following (A)
        a change in his or her position with the Corporation which materially
        reduces his or her level of responsibility, (B) a reduction in his or
        her level of compensation (including base salary, fringe benefits and
        target bonuses under any corporate-performance based bonus or incentive
        programs) by more than fifteen percent (15%) or (C) a relocation of such
        individual's place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles, provided
        and only if such change, reduction or relocation is effected without the
        individual's consent.

               P. MISCONDUCT shall mean the commission of any act of fraud,
embezzlement or dishonesty by the Optionee, any unauthorized use or disclosure
by such person of confidential information or trade secrets of the Corporation
(or any Parent or Subsidiary), or any other intentional misconduct by such
person adversely affecting the business or affairs of the Corporation (or any
Parent or Subsidiary) in a material manner. The foregoing definition shall not
be deemed to be inclusive of all the acts or omissions which the Corporation (or
any Parent or Subsidiary) may consider as grounds for the dismissal or discharge
of any Optionee or other person in the Service of the Corporation (or any Parent
or Subsidiary).

               Q. 1934 ACT shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.

               R. NON-STATUTORY OPTION shall mean an option not intended to
satisfy the requirements of Code Section 422.

               S. OPTIONEE shall mean any person to whom an option is granted
under the Discretionary Option Grant or Automatic Option Grant Program.

               T. PARENT shall mean any corporation (other than the Corporation)
in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Corporation, provided each
corporation in the unbroken chain (other than the Corporation) owns, at the time
of the determination, stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations
in such chain.



                                      A-3.
<PAGE>   23

               U. PERMANENT DISABILITY OR PERMANENTLY DISABLED shall mean the
inability of the Optionee to engage in any substantial gainful activity by
reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to
result in death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.
However, solely for purposes of the Automatic Option Grant Program, Permanent
Disability or Permanently Disabled shall mean the inability of the non-employee
Board member to perform his or her usual duties as a Board member by reason of
any medically determinable physical or mental impairment expected to result in
death or to be of continuous duration of twelve (12) months or more.

               V. PLAN shall mean the Corporation's 1996 Stock Incentive Plan,
as set forth in this document.

               W. PLAN ADMINISTRATOR shall mean the particular entity, whether
the Primary Committee, the Board or the Secondary Committee, which is authorized
to administer the Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to one or more
classes of eligible persons, to the extent such entity is carrying out its
administrative functions under those programs with respect to the persons under
its jurisdiction.

               X. PREDECESSOR PLAN shall mean the Corporation's pre-existing
1987 Stock Option Plan in effect immediately prior to the Plan Effective Date
hereunder.

               Y. PRIMARY COMMITTEE shall mean the committee of two (2) or more
non-employee Board members appointed by the Board to administer the
Discretionary Option Grant Program with respect to Section 16 Insiders.

               Z. SECONDARY COMMITTEE shall mean a committee of two (2) or more
Board members appointed by the Board to administer the Discretionary Option
Grant Program with respect to eligible persons other than Section 16 Insiders.

               AA. SECTION 16 INSIDER shall mean an officer or director of the
Corporation subject to the short-swing profit liabilities of Section 16 of the
1934 Act.

               BB. SERVICE shall mean the performance of services for the
Corporation (or any Parent or Subsidiary) by a person in the capacity of an
Employee, a non-employee member of the board of directors or a consultant or
independent advisor, except to the extent otherwise specifically provided in the
documents evidencing the option grant or stock issuance.

               CC. STOCK EXCHANGE shall mean either the American Stock Exchange
or the New York Stock Exchange.

               DD. SUBSIDIARY shall mean any corporation (other than the
Corporation) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the
Corporation, provided each corporation (other than the last corporation) in the
unbroken chain owns, at the time of the determination, stock possessing fifty
percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock
in one of the other corporations in such chain.



                                      A-4.
<PAGE>   24

               EE. TAKE-OVER PRICE shall mean the greater of (i) the Fair Market
Value per share of Common Stock on the date the option is surrendered to the
Corporation in connection with a Hostile Take-Over or (ii) the highest reported
price per share of Common Stock paid by the tender offeror in effecting such
Hostile Take-Over. However, if the surrendered option is an Incentive Option,
the Take-Over Price shall not exceed the clause (i) price per share.

               FF. 10% SHAREHOLDER shall mean the owner of stock (as determined
under Code Section 424(d)) possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total
combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Corporation (or any Parent
or Subsidiary).

               GG. WITHHOLDING TAXES shall mean the Federal, state and local
income and employment withholding taxes to which the holder of Non-Statutory
Options or unvested shares of Common Stock may become subject in connection with
the exercise of those options or the vesting of those shares.



                                      A-5.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.12
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>SENIOR MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.12
                               CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

                                    WORLDWIDE
                        SENIOR MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN
                            EVP, SR VP, VP, DIRECTOR
                                     FY 2000

I.   INTRODUCTION

     A.   THE OBJECTIVE OF THE SENIOR MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN is to
          financially reward Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents,
          Vice Presidents, Directors and employees in Grades 13 and 14 for their
          contributions to the success and profitability of Cisco Systems, Inc.

     B.   PARTICIPANTS: This plan applies solely to Vice Presidents and
          Directors of Cisco Systems or participating Cisco subsidiaries in the
          following positions:

          POSITION
          Executive Vice President
          Senior Vice President
          Vice President
          Director (excluding Sales Positions)
          Employees in Grades 13 and 14

          Any exceptions to the above will need to be approved in writing by the
          President. The participant must be employed in a bonus-eligible
          position on or before the first working day of the last fiscal quarter
          of Fiscal Year 2000 and must be employed on the last working day of
          that year to be eligible for an FY99 bonus. Participants may not be
          concurrently enrolled in any other bonus, sales or incentive plan.
          Participants in the Plan with less than one year of service will be
          eligible for a prorated bonus amount. In no event will any individual
          accrue any right or entitlement to a bonus under this Plan unless that
          individual is employed by Cisco Systems or a participating Cisco
          subsidiary on the last working day of Fiscal Year 2000.

     C.   EFFECTIVE DATE: The Plan is effective for the Fiscal Year 2000,
          beginning August 1, 1999 through July 29, 2000.

     D.   CHANGES IN PLAN: The Company presently has no plans to change the
          Senior Management Incentive Plan during the fiscal year. However, the
          Company reserves the right to modify the Senior Management Bonus Plan
          in total or in part, at any time. Any such change must be in writing
          and signed by the President. The President or plan designers reserve
          the right to interpret the plan document as needed.

     E.   ENTIRE AGREEMENT: This Plan is the entire agreement between Cisco
          Systems, Inc. and the employee regarding the subject matter of this
          Plan and supersedes all prior compensation or incentive plans or any
          written or verbal representations regarding the subject matter of this
          Plan.

II.  BONUS PLAN ELEMENTS

     A.   BASE SALARY is determined by the participant's manager, on the Focal
          review date scheduled for either August 1, April 1, or October 1 of
          each year. The annual base salary in effect at the end of the Fiscal
          Year 2000 represents the basis for the bonus calculation.

<PAGE>   2

Worldwide Senior Management Incentive Plan FY2000                    Page 2 of 5


     B.   BONUS TARGET PERCENTAGE is a percentage level of base salary
          determined by the position.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          POSITION                                                  BONUS %
          --------                                                  -------
<S>                                                        <C>
          EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT                                    60%
          SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT                                       60%
          VICE PRESIDENT                                              50%
          DIRECTOR (EXCLUDING SALES POSITIONS)                        40%
          GRADE 14                                                    40%
          GRADE 13                                                    40%
</TABLE>

     C.   INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE MULTIPLIER is based upon the manager's
          evaluation of performance and contribution for the fiscal year. This
          factor may range from 0.90 - 1.30. The assigned factor may also be a
          zero resulting in no bonus based on the manager's evaluation of
          performance and contribution. A written performance evaluation is
          required in conjunction with any assigned factor of zero.

          Employees who were given corrective feedback, on a Performance
          Improvement Plan and/or performing at a level of "Not Satisfactory"
          (N), at any time during the fiscal year may receive a lower Individual
          Performance Multiplier resulting in a lower bonus. The assigned
          multiplier may also be a zero resulting in no bonus based on the
          manager's evaluation of performance and contribution. A written
          performance evaluation is required in conjunction with any assigned
          factor of zero.

     D.   COMPANY PERFORMANCE MULTIPLIER is based upon achieving an established
          worldwide Revenue target and a worldwide Profit Before Interest and
          Tax (PBIT) target per the current Plan. The PBIT achievement to target
          is more heavily weighted relative to the worldwide Revenue target.
          Typically, 80% of each objective must be achieved for any bonus to be
          paid. Maximum payout under the Plan is 200% or a multiplier of two.
          When the Revenue and PBIT percentages of goal fall between the stated
          percentages on the matrix, the Company Performance Multiplier will be
          determined using a straight-line interpolation approach. The
          applicable targets for Fiscal Year 2000 are approved by the Cisco
          Board of Directors within the first 90 days of the fiscal year.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               COMPANY PERFORMANCE MULTIPLIER
               ------------------------------
<S>            <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>
               120%        0.90        1.10        1.30        1.90        2.00
               110%        0.85        1.00        1.10        1.60        1.90
REVENUE AS     100%        0.80        0.90        1.00        1.30        1.60
A % OF GOAL     90%        0.75        0.85        0.95        1.15        1.30
                80%        0.70        0.80        0.90        1.00        1.15
               ----------------------------------------------------------------
                            80%         90%        100%        110%        120%

                                             PBIT as a % of Goal
</TABLE>

EXAMPLE:       COMPANY PERFORMANCE
               -------------------
               Actual Revenue Performance is 100% of goal
               Actual PBIT Performance is 110% of goal

               COMPANY PERFORMANCE MULTIPLIER = 1.30
               -------------------------------------
<PAGE>   3

Worldwide Senior Management Incentive Plan FY2000                    Page 3 of 5


     E.   CUSTOMER SATISFACTION MULTIPLIER is based upon achievement of an
          overall worldwide customer satisfaction survey score. The multiplier
          may range from 0.95 - 1.20 based on the following criteria:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          WORLDWIDE SATISFACTION SCORE                FACTOR
          ----------------------------                ------
<S>               <C>                                  <C>
                     < 4.20                            0.95
                  4.20 - 4.25                          1.05
                  4.26 - 4.30                          1.10
                     4.31+                             1.20
</TABLE>

     F.   COMPANY STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE MULTIPLIER measures Cisco's annual
          revenue growth compared to select competitor company annual revenue
          growth. (Revenue is measured quarterly and combined to determine
          annual revenue growth percentage.) The multiplier is determined based
          on the revenue growth difference of Cisco and the selected competitor
          companies. The multiplier may range from 0.90 to 1.30.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          COMPANY STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE MULTIPLIER
          ----------------------------------------

          --------------------------------------------------------------
           Less Than        Equal to
          Competitors      Competitors     Exceed Competitors Growth By
          -----------      -----------     ----------------------------
<S>                            <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>
                                           10 pts     20 pts     30 pts

               0.9             1.0           1.1        1.2        1.3
          --------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

          EXAMPLE: Cisco Annual Revenue Growth is 30%
                   Select Competitor Company Revenue Growth is 20%
                   30% - 20% = 10% or 10 points
                   Multiplier = 1.1

     G.   PRORATION MULTIPLIER accounts for the number of calendar days during
          the fiscal year that the employee was in the bonus-eligible position.
          For example, the Proration Multiplier for an employee who has been on
          the Plan the entire year will be "1.00". For an employee who has been
          on the plan for 6 months, this factor will be "0.50". Employees in the
          following situations will have a proration factor of less than "1.00":

          o    Participants in the Plan who transferred to a new position not
               governed by any incentive plan.

          o    Employees who transferred from one bonus-eligible position to
               another bonus-eligible position. Employees in this situation will
               have their bonus prorated based on length of time in each
               position.

          o    Employees who have been on the Plan less than 12 months (such as
               a new hire).

          o    Employees who have been on a leave of absence of any length
               during the fiscal year.

          o    Employees who have been on the Plan, terminated their employment,
               and returned to a bonus-eligible position all in the same fiscal
               year.

          o    Employees working less than a 40-hour week will receive bonuses
               prorated according to the following schedule:

               20 - 39 hours/week:   prorated according to the average number
                                     of hours worked
               < 20 hours/week:      not bonus eligible
<PAGE>   4

Worldwide Senior Management Incentive Plan FY2000                    Page 4 of 5


          Any modification to the above schedule must be approved by the
          next-level Manager and Compensation in advance of the year-end close
          date.

     H.   BONUS FORMULA AND CALCULATION EXAMPLE: Assume a base salary of
          $195,000 at the 40% level, individual performance multiplier of 1.10,
          company performance multiplier of 1.30, a customer satisfaction
          multiplier of 1.05, a company strategic performance multiplier of 1.10
          and a proration multiplier of 1.00. Sample Calculation

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                 BONUS        INDIVIDUAL        COMPANY         CUSTOMER       COMPANY
  BASE           TARGET       PERFORMANCE     PERFORMANCE     SATISFACTION    STRATEGIC      PRORATION        TOTAL
 SALARY        PERCENTAGE     MULTIPLIER       MULTIPLIER      MULTIPLIER     MULTIPLIER     MULTIPLIER       BONUS
 ------        ----------     ----------      -----------     ------------    ----------     ----------       -----
<S>       <C>     <C>     <C>    <C>      <C>     <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>   <C>     <C>    <C>     <C>  <C>
$195,000   x      0.40     x     1.10      x      1.30     x      1.05      x    1.10     x     1.00     =   $128,829
</TABLE>

          In this example, the total bonus equals 66.1% of base salary.

     I.   MIDYEAR BONUS PAYMENTS: If the Company Performance Multiplier is at a
          minimum of 1.00 (midyear revenue and PBIT), a partial payment will be
          distributed to eligible employees midway through the fiscal year. This
          advance will be 50% of the bonus target by level, reduced by any
          advances, unearned commission advances, draws, or prorations and
          appropriate state and federal withholdings. The bonuses will be paid
          to employees who have met job expectations and were hired on or before
          the first day of the second quarter of Fiscal Year 2000 and are active
          on the day of distribution. For example, a Director would receive an
          advance equal to 20% of base salary. In no event, however, will any
          right or entitlement to such a partial payment accrue to any eligible
          participant unless that individual is employed by Cisco Systems or a
          participating Cisco subsidiary on the distribution date.

          If the Company Performance Multiplier is not at a minimum of 1.00
          (midyear revenue and PBIT), a partial payment may be distributed to
          employees midway through the fiscal year. This payment will be 25% of
          the bonus target by level. For example, a Director would receive an
          advance equal to 10% of base salary. If the company performance fails
          to achieve minimum revenue and PBIT targets resulting in no year-end
          payout, an additional 25% of the bonus target may be paid.

          Employees who are given corrective feedback, on a Performance
          Improvement Plan and/or are performing at a level of "Not
          Satisfactory" (N) at the end of the second quarter are not eligible to
          receive a partial payout midway through the fiscal year. Employees who
          have entered into a Mutual Separation Agreement may not be eligible to
          receive a midyear bonus payout or year-end payout based on manager
          discretion. An employee may not be eligible to receive a midyear
          payout based on manager discretion and subject to Human Resources
          concurrence.

III. PROCEDURES AND PRACTICES

     A.   PROCEDURE:

          1.   A copy of the Plan will be made available to each participant.

          2.   All bonus payments will be made after the company's collection of
               all applicable withholding taxes.

     B.   BUSINESS CONDUCT: It is the established policy of Cisco Systems, Inc.
          to conduct business with the highest standards of business ethics.
          Cisco employees may not offer, give, solicit or receive any payment
          that could appear to be a bribe, kickback or other irregular type of
          payment from anyone involved in any way with an actual or potential
          business transaction. Gifts, favors and entertainment are allowed such
          that they are consistent with our business practice, do not violate

<PAGE>   5

Worldwide Senior Management Incentive Plan FY2000                    Page 5 of 5


          any applicable laws, are of limited value ($50.00 or less) and would
          not embarrass Cisco if publicly disclosed.

     C.   TRANSFERS AND TERMINATIONS: Employees who are participants in the
          Senior Management Incentive Plan and who transfer to a new position
          not governed by this Plan will be eligible on a pro-rata basis for the
          applicable period and paid as defined by the Plan. Employees who
          transfer into the plan from another plan will be subject to proration
          as well. Payments from the plan are subject to reduction by advances,
          unearned commission advances, draws or prorations and appropriate
          state and federal withholdings. Any exceptions to the Plan must be
          designated in writing and approved by the President.

          A participant must be employed as of the last working day of the
          fiscal year to be eligible for the year-end bonus. A participant must
          be employed on the day of distribution to receive a partial midyear
          payment under paragraph II-I. If an employee terminates prior to the
          applicable date, the employee will not be eligible for such bonus or
          partial payment.

     D.   EMPLOYMENT AT WILL: The employment of all Plan participants at Cisco
          Systems, Inc. or the participating Cisco subsidiaries is for an
          indefinite period of time and is terminable at any time by either
          party, with or without cause being shown or advance notice by either
          party. This Plan shall not be construed to create a contract of
          employment for a specified period of time between Cisco Systems, Inc.
          or a participating Cisco subsidiary and any Plan participant.

     E.   PARTICIPATING CISCO SUBSIDIARY: For the 2000 Fiscal Year, the
          following Cisco subsidiaries will be participating subsidiaries in the
          plan:

                  Cisco Technology, Inc.
                  Cisco Systems Sales and Services, Inc.
                  Cisco Systems Finance, Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.46
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>SECOND AMEND. TO THE LEASE-SUMITOMO BANK/FINANCE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.46


                            SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE


        THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO LEASE ("Second Amendment") is made and entered
into effective as of February 24, 1998, by and between SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND
FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Landlord"), and CISCO SYSTEMS, INC., a
California corporation ("Tenant").

                                    RECITALS

        A. Landlord and Tenant entered into that certain Lease dated May 20,
1993, as amended by that certain First Amendment to Lease dated May 19, 1994
(the "Lease"), pursuant to which Landlord leased to Tenant those certain
buildings to be constructed on land located in San Jose, California, as more
particularly described in the Lease and on Exhibit "A" attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference ("Premises"). Any capitalized terms used
but not defined in this Second Amendment which are defined in the Lease shall
have the meaning ascribed in the Lease.

        B. Landlord and Tenant now desire to amend the terms of the Lease, as
more particularly described in this Second Amendment.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein
contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        1. Term. The Term of the Lease is hereby extended for an additional
period of five (5) years and shall expire on February 24, 2003.

        2. Addresses for Notices.

        (a) The address for copies of all Notices to the Landlord set forth in
        Section 1.9 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
        following:

        "Graham & James, LLP
        One Maritime Plaza, Suite 300
        San Francisco, CA  94111
        Attn:  Bruce W. Hyman, Esq."

        (b) The address for Notices to Tenant set forth in Section 1.9 of the
        Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "Tenant:             Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             170 West Tasman Drive
                             San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                             Attn:  Vice President Worldwide Real Estate



                                       1
<PAGE>   2

                                        and Workplace Resources

        with a copy to:      Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             170 West Tasman Drive
                             San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                             Attn:  Treasurer

        and a copy to:       Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison
                             550 West C Street, Suite 1200
                             San Diego, CA  92101
                             Attn:  Ellen E. Jamason"

        3. Address for Rent Payments. The address for Rent Payments set forth in
Section 1.10 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
        277 Park Avenue
        New York, NY 10172
        Attn:  Chief Credit Officer"

        4. Definitions. Article 2 of the Lease is hereby amended as follows:

        (a) Security Deposit. The following defined term is hereby added to
        Article 2 of the Lease:

                "2.52(a) Security Deposit. "Security Deposit" shall have the
        meaning set forth in Section 5.8."

        5. Security Deposit. Article 5 of the Lease is hereby amended to add the
following Section 5.8:

           "5.8  Security Deposit.

               (a) On or before 12:00 p.m. New York time on February 24, 1998,
        Tenant shall deliver to SBNYTC a security deposit payment (the "Security
        Deposit") in an amount equal to the Guaranteed Residual Value, which
        amount is approximately between eighty-six percent (86%) and
        eighty-seven percent (87%) of the Advances, not to exceed Fifty-Nine
        Million Nine Hundred Sixty-Seven Thousand Five Hundred Thirty-Eight and
        1/100 Dollars ($59,967,538.01). Landlord shall notify Tenant of the
        amount of the Security Deposit payment due from Tenant. Tenant hereby
        grants to Landlord a security interest in the Security Deposit and
        Landlord may use and commingle the Security Deposit with other funds of
        Landlord.

               (b) From and after the date of the Security Deposit by Tenant,
        the Security Deposit shall earn interest at the one (1) month LIBOR
        Rate. Landlord shall pay such interest to Tenant on each Rent Payment
        Date thereafter by wire



                                       2
<PAGE>   3

        transfer to such account as Tenant shall specify from time to time by
        written notice to Landlord; provided, however, that (i) Landlord shall
        not be required to pay such interest amount so long as any Base Rent is
        due but unpaid, and (ii) if the Base Rent due on any Rent Payment Date
        is not received by 12:00 p.m. New York time, any such interest payment
        on the Security Deposit shall not be due from Landlord to Tenant until
        the next Business Day. Any such interest payment that is not paid by
        Landlord when due shall bear interest at the federal funds rate for the
        first three (3) days of delinquency and thereafter at the Lease Rate.

               (c) The Security Deposit shall be held by Landlord as security
        for the payment of Base Rent and Additional Rent by Tenant pursuant to
        this Lease. If at any time during the Term any Base Rent or Additional
        Rent shall be overdue, then Landlord may at its election (but shall not
        be required to) appropriate and apply any portion of the Security
        Deposit to the payment of any such overdue Base Rent or Additional Rent.
        Should the entire Security Deposit, or any portion thereof, be
        appropriated and applied by Landlord as provided herein, then Tenant
        shall immediately, after receipt of written demand by Landlord, pay to
        Landlord a sufficient sum in cash to restore the Security Deposit to the
        amount required hereunder.

               (d) In addition, the Security Deposit shall also be held by
        Landlord as security for the payment of any amount due Landlord under
        Section 17.4(b) or Section 19.1(a) or for the payment of the Purchase
        Price in the event Tenant exercises the Purchase Option pursuant to
        Section 19.1. At the end of the Term, any portion of the Security
        Deposit then held by Landlord and not applied as provided in Section
        5.8(c) above or in the preceding sentence shall be returned to Tenant;
        provided, however, that Landlord and Tenant shall apply and set off the
        Security Deposit or any portion thereof against any amounts owed by
        Tenant to Landlord at the end of the Term (whether pursuant to Section
        19.1, Section 19.2 or otherwise). Any and all portions of the Security
        Deposit not applied to amounts owed by Tenant to Landlord shall be
        returned to Tenant within ten (10) days after the end of the Term."

        6. Liability Insurance. Section 7.1 of the Lease is hereby amended by
deleting the last three lines on page 20 and substituting the following:

        "than the following: (1) Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) per person;
        and (2) One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage."

        7. All-Risk Insurance. Section 7.3 is hereby amended by deleting clauses
(b) and (c), and replacing them with the following:

        "(b) a policy or policies of difference in conditions insurance covering
        the Improvements, providing coverage against loss or damage by
        earthquake and flood as, under good insurance practice, from time to
        time are insured against



                                       3
<PAGE>   4

        under earthquake coverage for properties of similar character, age and
        location in an amount or amounts not less than the lesser of (i) one
        hundred percent (100%) of the then actual replacement cost (exclusive of
        land, foundation, excavations, grading, landscaping, architectural and
        development fees and other items customarily excluded from such coverage
        and without an deduction for depreciation) or (ii) the amount of the
        Equity Funded Amount."

        8. Self Insurance. Article 7 is further amended by adding the following
Section 7.7:

        "The Tenant shall have the right to self-insure with respect to any of
        the insurance required under this Lease so long as (i) the Tenant is a
        publicly traded domestic corporation whose stock is traded on a
        nationally recognized exchange; (ii) the Tenant has not assigned this
        Lease; (iii) the Tenant maintains a Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of
        at least $1,000,000,000 according to its most recent audited financial
        statement; (iv) the Tenant has a senior unsecured credit rating of BBB
        or better from a nationally recognized rating agency; and (v) the Tenant
        governs and manages its self-insurance program in a manner consistent
        with programs managed by prudent businesses whose stock is publicly
        traded on nationally recognized exchanges. Upon request the Tenant shall
        supply the Landlord from time to time with evidence reasonably
        satisfactory to the Landlord of the Tenant's net worth and the
        satisfaction of the condition set forth above. If the Tenant elects to
        self-insure, the Tenant shall be responsible for losses or liabilities
        which would have been assumed by the insurance companies which would
        have issued the insurance required of the Tenant under the Lease. The
        Tenant will notify the Landlord in advance of any period for which it
        intends to self-insure and shall provide Landlord with satisfactory
        evidence that it complies with these requirements in order to give the
        Tenant an opportunity to confirm the satisfaction of the conditions set
        forth above. For so long as the Tenant self-insures, the tenant, for
        applicable periods, shall and does hereby indemnify and hold harmless
        the Landlord, its officers, directors, agents, employees and
        representatives from and against all costs, damages or expenses
        (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred or paid by the Tenant as
        a result of any claim customarily covered by a broad-form policy of
        commercial general liability insurance, including a contractual
        liability endorsement."

        9. Landlord's Right to Sell. Section 13.2 of the Lease is hereby amended
by adding the following sentence:

        "In the event of any sale or other transfer by Landlord of its interest
        in this Lease, Landlord, concurrently with the effective date of the
        transfer, shall deliver the Security Deposit to the transferee, and
        shall give notice thereof to Tenant."

        10. Events of Major Default. Section 17.2(d) shall be amended to provide
that Tenant shall not be in default so long as it is fully complying with the
self-insurance provision of Section 7.7 above.



                                       4
<PAGE>   5

        11. Failure to Replenish Under Pledge Agreement. Section 17.2(f) of the
Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:

        "(f) Failure to Replenish Under Pledge Agreement. Tenant's failure to
        replenish the collateral in `Collateral Accounts A and B' as defined in
        and under the Pledge Agreement (as defined in Section 13.1(b)) after
        notice and cure periods provided in the Pledge Agreement or to deliver
        the Security Deposit."

        12. Default Under other Facility. Section 17.2(g) is hereby modified to
read as follows:

        "A payment default (after applicable notice and cure periods) under any
        credit facility of Tenant which equals or exceed Twenty Million Dollars
        ($20,000,000.00)."

        13. Interest Coverage Ratio and Minimum Tangible Net Worth. Section
17.2(h) of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "(h) Interest Coverage Ratio and Minimum Tangible Net Worth. The
        Earnings Before Interest and Taxes divided by Interest Expense (as such
        terms are defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public
        Accountants consistently applied and as in effect from time to time)
        falls below 6.00 times, then Tenant shall be required to maintain a
        Minimum Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, defined as the sum of (i)
        $2,800,000,000.00, and (ii) 25% of net income (without subtracting for
        losses) earned in each of Tenant's fiscal quarters during the Term,
        commencing with Tenant's fourth fiscal quarter for 1997."

        14. Landlord's Default. The following Section 17.9 shall be added:

           "In addition to Tenant's Rights set forth in Section 17.8 above, in
           the event of a default by Landlord under Section 20.5, Tenant shall
           have the right to cure such default on behalf of and at Landlord's
           expense, without prior notice to Landlord. In addition, in the event
           of any default by Landlord under Section 20.3, 20.4 or 20.5, Tenant
           shall have the right to exercise its Purchase Option pursuant to
           Section 19.1 hereof."

        15. Mandatory Purchase/Sale of Premises. The second to the last sentence
of Section 19.2 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

           "In the event of default, breach or violation by Tenant of any of
           Tenant's obligations under this Section 19.2, Tenant shall have no
           liability to Landlord or any other party in excess of an amount equal
           to the then-existing Guaranteed Residual Value less a credit equal to
           any of the Collateral or the



                                       5
<PAGE>   6

           Security Deposit, as the case may be, which Sumitomo or any other Fee
           Mortgagee has used, applied, or otherwise come into possession of,
           and Landlord shall have no recourse, claim or counterclaim whatsoever
           against Tenant in excess of such amount on account of such default,
           breach or violation."

        16. Additional Covenants of Landlord. The following Sections 20.4 and
20.5 shall be deleted and the following substitution in place thereof:

           "20.4 Landlord Equity. Landlord covenants and agrees that during the
           Term of the Lease, Landlord shall maintain a residual equity capital
           investment so that Landlord will not be deemed to be a Special
           Purpose Entity.

           20.5 Default Under Authorized Loan. Landlord shall not, without
           Tenant's express prior written consent, default under any Authorized
           Loan, or any loan documents relating to such Authorized Loan, where
           such default does not arise from an Event of Major Default by Tenant
           under this Lease."

        17. Collateral. The following sentence is hereby added to Section 21.18
of the Lease:

           "Upon delivery of the Security Deposit by Tenant, the Collateral
           shall be released from the lien created by the Pledge Agreement to
           Tenant."

        18. Financial Reporting. The language beginning with the word
"quarterly" in the fifth line of Section 21.24 of the Lease and ending with the
word "Term" is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

           "quarterly, within fifty (50) days after the end of each of Tenant's
           first three (3) fiscal quarters of the fiscal year during the Term"

        19. Annual Negotiations. Article 21 of the Lease is hereby amended to
add the following Section 21.26:

        "21.26 Annual Negotiations. The parties acknowledge that Tenant's
        agreement to this Second Amendment on the terms and conditions contained
        herein is made in recognition of the current financial crises in the
        Japanese banking industry. Because market conditions involving the
        Japanese banking industry may improve with time, the parties hereby
        agree that, commencing on December 24, 1998 and each anniversary
        thereof, the parties shall review the economic terms of the Lease as
        hereby modified, to determine in good faith: (a) if the market
        conditions involving the Japanese banking industry have materially
        improved since the date of this Second Amendment, and if so, (b) the
        fair market Lease Rate, Lessor Contribution Rate and other economic
        terms of the Lease which should be made



                                       6
<PAGE>   7

        available to Tenant under such improved market conditions. Tenant's
        acceptance of this Second Amendment is further conditioned on Landlord's
        agreement to thereafter amend the Lease without any restructuring fee or
        Tenant obligation to pay for any of Landlord's transaction costs or
        legal fees to reflect the fair market Lease Rate, Lessor Contribution
        Rate and other economic terms of the Lease under the improved market
        conditions for the Japanese banking industry."

        20. Tenant Deed of Trust. Concurrently with the effective date of this
Second Amendment, Landlord shall execute, acknowledge and cause to be recorded
in the official record a deed of trust in form acceptable to Tenant ("Tenant
Deed of Trust"), which Tenant Deed of Trust shall secure Landlord's obligations
under this Lease (i) to return the Security Deposit pursuant to the terms of
this Lease and (ii) to convey the Premises to Tenant as required pursuant to
Article 19 hereof. The Tenant Deed of Trust shall be junior only to the Sumitomo
Deed of Trust, and the SBLF Deed of Trust.

        21. Counterparts. This Second Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
together shall comprise but a single instrument.

        22. Existing Lease. Except to the extent specifically amended hereby,
all terms and conditions of the Lease remain in full force and effect.

                        [Signatures begin on next page.]



                                       7
<PAGE>   8

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Second
Amendment effective as of the date and year first written above.

                                        "TENANT"

                                        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC., a California
                                        corporation



                                        By: ____________________________________
                                            Name:_______________________________
                                            Its:________________________________



                                        By: ____________________________________
                                            Name:_______________________________
                                            Its:________________________________


                      [Signatures continued on next page.]



                                       8
<PAGE>   9

                                        "LANDLORD"

                                        SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE, INC.,
                                             a Delaware corporation



                                        By: ____________________________________
                                            Name:_______________________________
                                            Its:________________________________


                                        By: ____________________________________
                                            Name:_______________________________
                                            Its:________________________________



                                       9
<PAGE>   10

                                   EXHIBIT "A"

                          Legal Description of Premises

                                [to be attached]
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.47
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>FIRST AMEND. TO THE LEASE-SUMITOMO BANK/FINANCE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.47


                            FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE

                                (NORTH CAROLINA)


        THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO LEASE ("First Amendment") is made and entered
into effective as of July 10, 1999, by and between SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND
FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Landlord"), and CISCO SYSTEMS, INC., a
California corporation ("Tenant").

                                    RECITALS

        A. Landlord and Tenant entered into that certain Lease dated August 12,
1994 (the "Lease"), pursuant to which Landlord leased to Tenant those certain
buildings to be constructed on land located in Wake County, North Carolina, as
more particularly described in the Lease and on Exhibit "A" attached hereto and
incorporated herein by this reference ("Premises"). Any capitalized terms used
but not defined in this First Amendment which are defined in the Lease shall
have the meaning ascribed in the Lease.

        B. Landlord and Tenant now desire to amend the terms of the Lease, as
more particularly described in this First Amendment.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein
contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        1. Term. Pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Lease, the Initial Term of the
Lease set forth in Section 1.6 of the Lease is hereby extended for an additional
period and shall expire on May 20, 2005. Landlord agrees that all of the
Extension Conditions set forth in Section 4.2 of the Lease have either been
waived by Landlord or satisfied by Tenant, provided that Tenant must comply with
all of the terms and conditions set forth in that certain Indicative Proposal
executed by Landlord and Tenant dated April 16, 1999 as a condition to
Landlord's agreement to enter into this First Amendment.

        2. Addresses for Notices.

        (a) The address for copies of all Notices to the Landlord set forth in
        Section 1.9 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
        following:

        "Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
        277 Park Avenue
        New York, NY  10172
        Attn:  Chief Credit Officer

        with a copy to:



                                       1
<PAGE>   2

        Graham & James LLP
        One Maritime Plaza, Suite 300
        San Francisco, CA  94111
        Attn:  Bruce W. Hyman, Esq."

        (b) The address for Notices to Tenant set forth in Section 1.9 of the
        Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "Tenant:             Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             170 West Tasman Drive
                             San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                             Attn: Director of Real Estate Worldwide

        with a copy to:      Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             170 West Tasman Drive
                             San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                             Attn:  Treasurer

        and a copy to:       Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison
                             550 West C Street, Suite 1200
                             San Diego, CA  92101
                             Attn:  Scott Biel, Esq."

        3. Address for Rent Payments. The addresses for payments of Base Rent
(Equity Rent Component and Senior Rent Component) set forth in Section 1.10 of
the Lease are hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
               277 Park Avenue
               New York, NY 10172
               Attn:  Chief Credit Officer"

    4. Definitions. The following defined term is hereby added to Article 2 of
the Lease:

               "2.58 Security Deposit. "Security Deposit" shall have the
        meaning set forth in Section 5.8."

The following defined terms are hereby revised as set forth below:

               Equity Rent Component. The percentage of "0.75%" set forth in
Section 2.18 of the Lease is hereby amended to "one percent (1.0%)".

               Lease Rate. The following is hereby inserted as the third
        sentence of Section 2.29:



                                       2
<PAGE>   3

               "Commencing with the payment of Base Rent due on August 1, 1999
         and thereafter for each successive payment of Base Rent due during the
         Term of the Lease, the term "Lease Rate" shall be amended to mean that
         annual amount equal to one month LIBOR plus the product of the then
         existing Equity Funded Amount multiplied by the LIBOR Rate plus 100
         basis points."

               LIBOR Business Day. The term "LIBOR Business Day" set forth in
         Section 2.31 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the term
         "Euro-Dollar business day" which shall mean a day on which dealings
         between banks are carried on in U.S. dollar deposits in London,
         England, and New York, New York.

               LIBOR Rate. The definition of the term "LIBOR Rate" set forth in
         Section 2.32 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
         following:

               "LIBOR Rate" shall mean the annualized rate equal to the
        mid-morning average of the approximate one (1) month LIBOR rates
        published by Reuters Monitoring Systems (rounded upwards to the next
        higher 1/100th of one percent (1%) if such rate is not a multiple of
        1/100), for an amount equal to the entire then outstanding Senior Funded
        Amount, and appearing on the day that is two (2) Euro-Dollar business
        days preceding each Rent Payment Date. In the event the Reuters quote is
        not available, the British Banker's Association's Interest Settlement
        Rate shall be used."

               Nominal Rate and Senior Rent Component. The term "Nominal Rate"
         set forth in Section 2.37 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced
         with the LIBOR Rate, as defined herein.

        5. Security Deposit. Article 5 of the Lease is hereby amended to add the
following Section 5.8:

           "5.8  Security Deposit.

               (a) On or before 12:00 p.m. New York time on July 12, 1999,
        Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a security deposit payment (the
        "Security Deposit") in an amount equal to the Senior Funded Amount under
        the Lease which is _________________ Dollars ($_______________). Tenant
        hereby grants to Landlord a security interest in the Security Deposit
        and Landlord may use and commingle the Security Deposit with other funds
        of Landlord.

               (b) From and after the date of the Security Deposit by Tenant set
        forth in subparagraph (a) above, the Security Deposit shall earn
        interest at the one (1) month LIBOR Rate. Landlord shall pay such
        interest to Tenant on each Rent Payment Date thereafter by wire transfer
        to such account as Tenant shall specify from time to time by written
        notice to Landlord; provided, however, that (i)



                                       3
<PAGE>   4

        Landlord shall not be required to pay such interest amount so long as
        any Base Rent is due but unpaid, and (ii) if the Base Rent due on any
        Rent Payment Date is not received by 12:00 p.m. New York time, any such
        interest payment on the Security Deposit shall not be due from Landlord
        to Tenant until the next Business Day. Any such interest payment that is
        not paid by Landlord when due shall bear interest at the federal funds
        rate for the first three (3) days of delinquency and thereafter at the
        Lease Rate.

               (c) The Security Deposit shall be held by Landlord as security
        for the payment of Base Rent and Additional Rent by Tenant pursuant to
        this Lease. If at any time during the Term any Base Rent or Additional
        Rent shall be overdue, then Landlord may at its election (but shall not
        be required to) appropriate and apply any portion of the Security
        Deposit to the payment of any such overdue Base Rent or Additional Rent.
        Should the entire Security Deposit, or any portion thereof, be
        appropriated and applied by Landlord as provided herein, then Tenant
        shall immediately, after receipt of written demand by Landlord, pay to
        Landlord a sufficient sum in cash to restore the Security Deposit to the
        amount required hereunder.

               (d) In addition, the Security Deposit shall also be held by
        Landlord as security for the payment of any amount due Landlord under
        Section 17.4(b) or Section 19.1(a) or for the payment of the Purchase
        Price in the event Tenant exercises the Purchase Option pursuant to
        Section 19.1. At the end of the Term, any portion of the Security
        Deposit then held by Landlord and not applied as provided in Section
        5.6(c) above or in the preceding sentence shall be returned to Tenant;
        provided, however, that Landlord and Tenant shall apply and set off the
        Security Deposit or any portion thereof against any amounts owed by
        Tenant to Landlord at the end of the Term (whether pursuant to Section
        19.1, Section 19.2 or otherwise). Any and all portions of the Security
        Deposit not applied to amounts owed by Tenant to Landlord shall be
        returned to Tenant within ten (10) days after the end of the Term."

        6. The UBS Loan and Payments of Base Rent.

        (i) The following subparagraph is hereby added to Section 5.1 of the
Lease:

               "(c) Commencing with the payment of Base Rent due on August 1,
         1999, Tenant shall pay Base Rent (the Equity Rent Component and the
         Senior Rent Component) to Landlord pursuant to the wire transfer
         instructions on the invoices provided by Landlord, or at such other
         place as Landlord and Tenant may from time to time mutually agree upon,
         in their respective sole and absolute discretion. Tenant shall pay Base
         Rent by wire transfer. Landlord shall supply Tenant with such bank
         account information as Tenant shall require to enable payment by wire
         transfer."



                                       4
<PAGE>   5

        (ii) Landlord and Tenant hereby agree that as of July 12, 1999, the UBS
Loan and UBS Note will be paid in full and all of the documents evidencing and
securing the UBS Note and UBS Loan will be terminated and of no further force
and effect. Effective on July ___, 1999, all references to and provisions
regarding UBS, the UBS Loan, UBS Note, New Loan, the Loan Rate, the Authorized
Loan and the Replacement Loan in the Lease shall be inapplicable to the Lease
and of no further force and effect.

        7. Liability Insurance. Section 7.1 of the Lease is hereby amended by
deleting the second sentence of such section and substituting the following:

        "The Liability insurance policy shall contain coverage limits no less
than the following: (a) Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) per person; and (b)
One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage."

        7. All-Risk Insurance. Section 7.3 is hereby amended by deleting clause
(b) and replacing it with the following:

        "(b) a policy or policies of difference in conditions insurance covering
        the Improvements, providing coverage against loss or damage by
        earthquake and flood as, under good insurance practice, from time to
        time are insured against under earthquake coverage for properties of
        similar character, age and location in an amount or amounts not less
        than the lesser of (i) one hundred percent (100%) of the then actual
        replacement cost (exclusive of land, foundation, excavations, grading,
        landscaping, architectural and development fees and other items
        customarily excluded from such coverage and without an deduction for
        depreciation) or (ii) the amount of the Equity Funded Amount."

        8. Self Insurance. Article 7 is further amended by adding the following
Section 7.7:

        "The Tenant shall have the right to self-insure with respect to any of
        the insurance required under this Lease so long as (i) the Tenant is a
        publicly traded domestic corporation whose stock is traded on a
        nationally recognized exchange; (ii) the Tenant has not assigned this
        Lease; (iii) the Tenant maintains a Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of
        at least $1,000,000,000 according to its most recent audited financial
        statement; (iv) the Tenant has a senior unsecured credit rating of BBB
        or better from a nationally recognized rating agency; and (v) the Tenant
        governs and manages its self-insurance program in a manner consistent
        with programs managed by prudent businesses whose stock is publicly
        traded on nationally recognized exchanges. Upon request the Tenant shall
        supply the Landlord from time to time with evidence reasonably
        satisfactory to the Landlord of the Tenant's net worth and the
        satisfaction of the condition set forth above. If the Tenant elects to
        self-insure, the Tenant shall be responsible for losses or liabilities
        which would have been assumed by the insurance companies which would
        have issued the insurance required of the Tenant under the Lease. The



                                       5
<PAGE>   6

        Tenant will notify the Landlord in advance of any period for which it
        intends to self-insure and shall provide Landlord with satisfactory
        evidence that it complies with these requirements in order to give the
        Tenant an opportunity to confirm the satisfaction of the conditions set
        forth above. For so long as the Tenant self-insures, the Tenant, for
        applicable periods, shall and does hereby indemnify and hold harmless
        the Landlord, its officers, directors, agents, employees and
        representatives from and against all costs, damages or expenses
        (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred or paid by the Tenant as
        a result of any claim customarily covered by a broad-form policy of
        commercial general liability insurance, including a contractual
        liability endorsement."

        9. Landlord's Right to Sell. Section 13.2 of the Lease is hereby amended
by adding the following sentence:

        "In the event of any sale or other transfer by Landlord of its interest
        in this Lease, Landlord, concurrently with the effective date of the
        transfer, shall deliver the Security Deposit to the transferee, and
        shall give notice thereof to Tenant."

        10.  Events of Major Default.

        (i) Section 17.2(d) of the Lease shall be amended to provide that Tenant
shall not be in default so long as it is fully complying with the self-insurance
provision of Section 7.7 above.

        (ii) Section 17 of the Lease is hereby modified to add the following new
subparagraph as an Event of Major Default:

               "(k) Invalidity of Lease Documents. Tenant shall directly or
        indirectly contest the validity of the Lease or any document executed by
        Tenant in connection with the Lease in any court of competent
        jurisdiction or the validity of any lien in favor of Landlord created by
        any such documents."

        (iii) Section 17.2(f) of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

        "(f) Failure to Replenish Under Pledge Agreement or Deliver Security
        Deposit. Tenant's failure to replenish the collateral account as
        required under the Pledge Agreement (as defined in Section 13.1(b))
        after notice and cure periods provided in the Pledge Agreement or to
        deliver the Security Deposit."

        (iv) Section 17.2(g) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "A payment default (after applicable notice and cure periods) under any
        credit facility of Tenant which equals or exceed Fifty Million Dollars
        ($50,000,000.00)."



                                       6
<PAGE>   7

        (v) Section 17.2(h) of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:

        "(h) Interest Coverage Ratio and Minimum Tangible Net Worth. The
        Earnings Before Interest and Taxes divided by Interest Expense (as such
        terms are defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public
        Accountants consistently applied and as in effect from time to time)
        falls below 6.00 times, in which case Tenant shall be required to
        maintain a Minimum Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, defined as the sum
        of (i) $2,800,000,000.00, and (ii) 25% of net income (without
        subtracting for losses) earned in each of Tenant's fiscal quarters
        during the Term, commencing with Tenant's fourth fiscal quarter for
        1998."

            11. Landlord's Default. The following Section 17.9 shall be added to
the Lease:

           "In addition to Tenant's Rights set forth in Section 17.8 above, in
           the event of a default by Landlord under Section 20.5, Tenant shall
           have the right to cure such default on behalf of and at Landlord's
           expense, without prior notice to Landlord. In addition, in the event
           of any default by Landlord under Section 20.3, Tenant shall have the
           right to exercise its Purchase Option pursuant to Section 19.1
           hereof."

        12. Option to Purchase Premises. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 19.1 of the Lease, in the event Tenant subdivides the Premises into
legally separate parcels or lots, Tenant may, subject to the condition set forth
in the following sentence, exercise its Purchase Option with respect to any or
all of such separate parcels or lots. Landlord shall have the right to reject
Tenant's exercise of its Purchase Option with respect to less than all of such
parcels or lots, if Landlord determines in its reasonable judgment that the
value of the portion of the Premises remaining after the sale of such lot(s) or
parcel(s) will be adversely affected by such sale. Tenant shall provide to
Landlord at Tenant's sole cost and expense such documents and information
reasonably required by Landlord in order for Landlord to determine the value of
the remaining portion of the Premises, including without limitation, an
appraisal of the remaining portion of the Premises prepared by an appraiser
approved by Landlord. In the event Tenant properly exercises its Purchase Option
with respect to less than all of the Premises, the Purchase Price shall be the
portion of the Funded Amount reasonably allocated by Landlord to the portion of
the Premises being purchased under the Purchase Option, plus the amount of any
reasonable and customary fees, costs and expenses of Landlord associates with
the sale, break funding costs, if any, plus any then due and delinquent Base
Rent and Additional Rent, if any, under the Lease and the sale shall be
consummate pursuant to the terms of Section 19.1 of the Lease. Upon Tenant's
delivery to Landlord of the entire Purchase Price upon the exercise of the
option to purchase a portion of the Premises, the Security Deposit and the
Senior Funded Amount under this Lease shall mean that amount set forth in
Section 5.8 hereof less that portion of the Purchase Price allocated to the
portion of the Premises being purchased under the Purchase Option properly
allocated by Landlord to the Senior funded Amount.



                                       7
<PAGE>   8

        Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, upon the
expiration of the Term, Tenant shall be obligated to exercise its Purchase
Option with respect to all of the then remaining Premises.

        13. Mandatory Purchase/Sale of Premises. The second to the last sentence
of Section 19.2 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

           "In the event of default, breach or violation by Tenant of any of
           Tenant's obligations under this Section 19.2, Tenant shall have no
           liability to Landlord or any other party in excess of an amount equal
           to the then-existing Guaranteed Residual Value less a credit equal to
           any of the Collateral or the Security Deposit, as the case may be,
           which Sumitomo or any other Fee Mortgagee has used, applied, or
           otherwise come into possession of, and Landlord shall have no
           recourse, claim or counterclaim whatsoever against Tenant in excess
           of such amount on account of such default, breach or violation."

        14. Additional Covenants of Landlord. The following Sections 20.4 and
20.5 shall be deleted and the following substitution in place thereof:

               "20.6 Landlord Equity. Landlord covenants and agrees that during
           the Term of the Lease, Landlord shall maintain a residual equity
           capital investment so that Landlord will not be deemed to be a
           Special Purpose Entity.

        15. Collateral. The following sentence is hereby added to Section 21.18
of the Lease:

           "Upon delivery of the Security Deposit by Tenant, the Collateral
           shall be released from the lien created by the Pledge Agreement to
           Tenant."

        16. Financial Reporting. The language beginning with the word
"quarterly" in the fifth line of Section 21.24 of the Lease and ending with the
word "Term" is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

           "quarterly, within fifty (50) days after the end of each of Tenant's
           first three (3) fiscal quarters of the fiscal year during the Term"

        17. Tenant Deed of Trust. Concurrently with the effective date of this
First Amendment, Landlord shall execute, acknowledge and cause to be recorded in
the register of deeds a deed of trust in form acceptable to Tenant ("Tenant Deed
of Trust"), which Tenant Deed of Trust shall secure Landlord's obligations under
the Lease (i) to return the Security Deposit pursuant to the terms of the Lease
and (ii) to convey the



                                       8
<PAGE>   9

Premises to Tenant as required pursuant to Article 19 of the Lease. The Tenant
Deed of Trust shall be junior only to the SBLF Deed of Trust.

        18.  Change in Ownership; Landlord's Termination Option

        In the event any person or Entity unrelated to Tenant obtains more than
49% of the voting control of Tenant, Tenant shall immediately notify Landlord of
such event and Landlord shall have the option upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Tenant, delivered within thirty (30 days following Landlord's
receipt of written notice from Tenant of such event, to terminate this Lease. If
Landlord exercises its right to terminate the Lease pursuant to this paragraph,
Tenant shall fully exercise the Purchase Option with respect to the entire then
existing Premises no later than the date which is thirty (30) days following the
date Tenant receives the termination option exercise notice from Landlord.

        19.  Representations and Warranties.

        Tenant hereby reaffirms each and every representation and warranty of
Tenant made under Section 21.22 of the Lease.

        20. Counterparts. This First Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
together shall comprise but a single instrument.

        21. Existing Lease. Except to the extent specifically amended hereby,
all terms and conditions of the Lease remain in full force and effect.

                        [Signatures begin on next page.]



                                       9
<PAGE>   10

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this First Amendment
effective as of the date and year first written above.

                                        "TENANT"

                                        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC., a California
                                        corporation



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________


                      [Signatures continued on next page.]



                                       10
<PAGE>   11

                                        "LANDLORD"

                                        SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE, INC.,
                                          a Delaware corporation



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________



                                       11
<PAGE>   12

                                   EXHIBIT "A"

                          Legal Description of Premises

                                [to be attached]



                                       12
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.48
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>SECOND AMEND. TO GROUND LEASE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.48


                        SECOND AMENDMENT TO GROUND LEASE

                                (NORTH CAROLINA)


        THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO GROUND LEASE ("Second Amendment") is made and
entered into effective as of July 10, 1999, by and between SUMITOMO BANK LEASING
AND FINANCE, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Landlord"), and CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.,
a California corporation ("Tenant").

                                    RECITALS

        A. Landlord and Tenant entered into that certain Ground Lease dated July
11, 1994, which was amended on August 12, 1994 (collectively, the "Lease"),
pursuant to which Landlord leased to Tenant certain land located in Wake County,
North Carolina, as more particularly described in the Lease and on Exhibit "A"
attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference ("Premises"). Any
capitalized terms used but not defined in this Second Amendment which are
defined in the Lease shall have the meaning ascribed in the Lease.

        B. Landlord and Tenant now desire to amend the terms of the Lease, as
more particularly described in this Second Amendment.

        NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein
contained, the parties hereby agree as follows:

        1. Term. Pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Lease, the Initial Term of the
Lease set forth in Section 1.6 of the Lease is hereby extended and shall expire
on May 20, 2005. Landlord agrees that all of the Extension Conditions set forth
in Section 4.2 of the Lease have either been waived by Landlord or satisfied by
Tenant, provided that Tenant must comply with all of the terms and conditions
set forth in that certain Indicative Proposal executed by Landlord and Tenant
dated April 16, 1999 as a condition to Landlord's agreement to enter into this
Second Amendment.

        2. Addresses for Notices.

        (a) The address for copies of all Notices to the Landlord set forth in
        Section 1.9 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
        following:

        "Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
        277 Park Avenue
        New York, NY  10172
        Attn:  Chief Credit Officer



                                       1
<PAGE>   2

        with a copy to:

        Graham & James LLP
        One Maritime Plaza, Suite 300
        San Francisco, CA  94111
        Attn:  Bruce W. Hyman, Esq."

        (b) The address for Notices to Tenant set forth in Section 1.9 of the
        Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "Tenant:             Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             170 West Tasman Drive
                             San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                             Attn: Director of Real Estate, Worldwide

        with a copy to:      Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             170 West Tasman Drive
                             San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                             Attn:  Treasurer

        and a copy to:       Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison
                             550 West C Street, Suite 1200
                             San Diego, CA  92101
                             Attn:  Scott Biel, Esq."

        3. Address for Rent Payments. The address for payments of Base Rent set
forth in Section 1.10 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:

        "Sumitomo Bank Leasing and Finance, Inc.
           277 Park Avenue
           New York, NY 10172
           Attn:  Chief Credit Officer"

        4. Definitions. The following defined terms are hereby added to Article
2 of the Lease:

               "2.38 LIBOR Rate. "LIBOR Rate" shall mean the annualized rate
        equal to the mid-morning average of the approximate one (1) month LIBOR
        rates published by Reuters Monitoring Systems (rounded upwards to the
        next higher 1/100th of one percent (1%) if such rate is not a multiple
        of 1/100), for an amount equal to the entire then outstanding Funded
        Amount, and on the day that is two (2) Euro-Dollar business days
        preceding each Rent Payment Date. In the event the Reuters quote is not
        available, the British Banker's Association's Interest Settlement Rate
        shall be used."



                                       2
<PAGE>   3

               "2.39 Security Deposit. "Security Deposit" shall have the meaning
        set forth in Section 5.6."

The following defined terms are hereby revised as set forth below:

               Base Rent. The following is hereby inserted at the end of Section
        2.5:

               "Commencing with the payment of Base Rent due on August 1, 1999,
"Base Rent" shall mean, as of any Rent Payment Date thereafter, the product of
the Funded Amount multiplied by the Lease Rate."

               Funded Amount. The following is hereby inserted at the end of
        Section 2.11:

               "Commencing on July12, 1999, "Funded Amount" shall mean from time
        to time during the Term of the Lease, the amount of the then outstanding
        Security Deposit (excluding any interest thereon due to Tenant), less
        any reductions in the Security Deposit made pursuant to the terms of the
        Lease."

               Lease Rate. The following is hereby inserted as the third
sentence of Section 2.16:

               "Commencing with the payment of Base Rent due on August 1, 1999
         and thereafter for each successive payment of Base Rent due during the
         Term of the Lease, the term "Lease Rate" shall be amended to mean that
         annual amount equal to one month LIBOR plus the product of the then
         existing balance of the Security Deposit (excluding any interest
         thereon due to Tenant) multiplied by the LIBOR Rate, which amount is
         then prorated for the rental period in question on a 30/360 basis."

        5. Security Deposit. Article 5 of the Lease is hereby amended to add the
following Section 5.6:

           "5.6  Security Deposit.

               (a) On or before 12:00 p.m. New York time on July 12, 1999,
        Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a security deposit payment (the
        "Security Deposit") in an amount equal to the Funded Amount under the
        Lease which is Three Million Four Hundred Seventeen Thousand One Hundred
        and 29/100 Dollars ($3,417,100.29) as such amount may be reduced from
        time to time pursuant to Tenant's exercise of the Purchase Option in
        accordance with Section 12 of this Second Amendment to Lease. Tenant
        hereby grants to Landlord a security interest in the Security Deposit
        and Landlord may use and commingle the Security Deposit with other funds
        of Landlord.



                                       3
<PAGE>   4

               (b) From and after the date of the Security Deposit by Tenant set
        forth in subparagraph (a) above, the Security Deposit shall earn
        interest at the one (1) month LIBOR Rate. Landlord shall pay such
        interest to Tenant on each Rent Payment Date thereafter by wire transfer
        to such account as Tenant shall specify from time to time by written
        notice to Landlord; provided, however, that (i) Landlord shall not be
        required to pay such interest amount so long as any Base Rent is due but
        unpaid, and (ii) if the Base Rent due on any Rent Payment Date is not
        received by 12:00 p.m. New York time, any such interest payment on the
        Security Deposit shall not be due from Landlord to Tenant until the next
        Business Day. Any such interest payment that is not paid by Landlord
        when due shall bear interest at the federal funds rate for the first
        three (3) days of delinquency and thereafter at the Lease Rate.

               (c) The Security Deposit shall be held by Landlord as security
        for the payment of Base Rent and Additional Rent by Tenant pursuant to
        this Lease. If at any time during the Term any Base Rent or Additional
        Rent shall be overdue, then Landlord may at its election (but shall not
        be required to) appropriate and apply any portion of the Security
        Deposit to the payment of any such overdue Base Rent or Additional Rent.
        Should the entire Security Deposit, or any portion thereof, be
        appropriated and applied by Landlord as provided herein, then Tenant
        shall immediately, after receipt of written demand by Landlord, pay to
        Landlord a sufficient sum in cash to restore the Security Deposit to the
        amount required hereunder.

               (d) In addition, the Security Deposit shall also be held by
        Landlord as security for the payment of any amount due Landlord under
        Section 17.4(b) or Section 19.1(a) or for the payment of the Purchase
        Price in the event Tenant exercises the Purchase Option pursuant to
        Section 19.1. At the end of the Term, any portion of the Security
        Deposit then held by Landlord and not applied as provided in Section
        5.6(c) above or in the preceding sentence shall be returned to Tenant;
        provided, however, that Landlord and Tenant shall apply and set off the
        Security Deposit or any portion thereof against any amounts owed by
        Tenant to Landlord at the end of the Term (whether pursuant to Section
        19.1, Section 19.2 or otherwise). Any and all portions of the Security
        Deposit not applied to amounts owed by Tenant to Landlord shall be
        returned to Tenant within ten (10) days after the end of the Term."

        6. The UBS Loan and Payments of Base Rent.

        (i) The following subparagraph is hereby added to Section 5.1 of the
Lease:

               "(c) Commencing with the payment of Base Rent due on August 1,
         1999, Tenant shall pay Base Rent to Landlord pursuant to the wire
         transfer instructions on the invoices provided by Landlord, or at such
         other place as Landlord and Tenant may from time to time mutually agree
         upon, in their respective sole and



                                       4
<PAGE>   5

        absolute discretion. Tenant shall pay Base Rent by wire transfer.
        Landlord shall supply Tenant with such bank account information as
        Tenant shall require to enable payment by wire transfer."

        (ii) Landlord and Tenant hereby agree that as of July 12, 1999, the UBS
Loan and UBS Note will be paid in full and all of the documents evidencing and
securing the UBS Note and UBS Loan will be terminated and of no further force
and effect. Effective on July ___, 1999, all references to and provisions
regarding UBS, the UBS Loan, UBS Note, New Loan, the Loan Rate, the Authorized
Loan and the Replacement Loan in the Lease shall be inapplicable to the Lease
and of no further force and effect.

        7. Liability Insurance. Section 7.1 of the Lease is hereby amended by
deleting the second sentence of such section and substituting the following:

        "The liability insurance policy shall contain coverage limits no less
        than the following: (a) Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000.00) per person;
        and (b) One Million Dollars ($1,000,000.00) for property damage."

        8. Self Insurance. Article 7 is further amended by adding the following
Section 7.4:

        "The Tenant shall have the right to self-insure with respect to any of
        the insurance required under this Lease so long as (i) the Tenant is a
        publicly traded domestic corporation whose stock is traded on a
        nationally recognized exchange; (ii) the Tenant has not assigned this
        Lease; (iii) the Tenant maintains a Consolidated Tangible Net Worth of
        at least $1,000,000,000 according to its most recent audited financial
        statement; (iv) the Tenant has a senior unsecured credit rating of BBB
        or better from a nationally recognized rating agency; and (v) the Tenant
        governs and manages its self-insurance program in a manner consistent
        with programs managed by prudent businesses whose stock is publicly
        traded on nationally recognized exchanges. Upon request the Tenant shall
        supply the Landlord from time to time with evidence reasonably
        satisfactory to the Landlord of the Tenant's net worth and the
        satisfaction of the condition set forth above. If the Tenant elects to
        self-insure, the Tenant shall be responsible for losses or liabilities
        which would have been assumed by the insurance companies which would
        have issued the insurance required of the Tenant under the Lease. The
        Tenant will notify the Landlord in advance of any period for which it
        intends to self-insure and shall provide Landlord with satisfactory
        evidence that it complies with these requirements in order to give the
        Tenant an opportunity to confirm the satisfaction of the conditions set
        forth above. For so long as the Tenant self-insures, the Tenant, for
        applicable periods, shall and does hereby indemnify and hold harmless
        the Landlord, its officers, directors, agents, employees and
        representatives from and against all costs, damages or expenses
        (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred or paid by the Tenant as
        a result of any claim customarily covered by a broad-form policy of
        commercial general liability insurance, including a contractual
        liability endorsement."



                                       5
<PAGE>   6

        9. Landlord's Right to Sell. Section 13.2 of the Lease is hereby amended
by adding the following sentence:

        "In the event of any sale or other transfer by Landlord of its interest
        in this Lease, Landlord, concurrently with the effective date of the
        transfer, shall deliver the Security Deposit to the transferee, and
        shall give notice thereof to Tenant."

        10.  Events of Major Default.

        (i) Section 17.2(d) of the Lease shall be amended to provide that Tenant
shall not be in default so long as it is fully complying with the self-insurance
provision of Section 7.4 above.

        (ii) Section 17 of the Lease is hereby modified to add the following new
subparagraph as an Event of Major Default:

               "(j) Invalidity of Lease Documents. Tenant shall directly or
        indirectly contest the validity of the Lease or any document executed by
        Tenant in connection with the Lease in any court of competent
        jurisdiction or the validity of any lien in favor of Landlord created by
        any such documents."

        (iii) Section 17.2(f) of the Lease is hereby deleted in its entirety and
replaced with the following:

        "(f) Failure to Replenish Under Pledge Agreement or Deliver Security
        Deposit. Tenant's failure to replenish the collateral account as
        required under the Pledge Agreement (as defined in Section 13.1(b))
        after notice and cure periods provided in the Pledge Agreement or to
        deliver the Security Deposit."

        (iv) Section 17.2(g) is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

        "A payment default (after applicable notice and cure periods) under any
        credit facility of Tenant which equals or exceed Fifty Million Dollars
        ($50,000,000.00)."

        (v) Section 17.2(h) of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the
following:

        "(h) Interest Coverage Ratio and Minimum Tangible Net Worth. The
        Earnings Before Interest and Taxes divided by Interest Expense (as such
        terms are defined in accordance with generally accepted accounting
        principles promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public
        Accountants consistently applied and as in effect from time to time)
        falls below 6.00 times, in which case Tenant shall be required to
        maintain a Minimum Consolidated Tangible Net Worth, defined as the sum
        of (i) $2,800,000,000.00, and (ii) 25% of net income (without
        subtracting for



                                       6
<PAGE>   7

        losses) earned in each of Tenant's fiscal quarters during the Term,
        commencing with Tenant's fourth fiscal quarter for 1998."

            11. Landlord's Default. The following Section 17.9 shall be added to
the Lease:

           "In addition to Tenant's Rights set forth in Section 17.8 above, in
           the event of a default by Landlord under Section 20.5, Tenant shall
           have the right to cure such default on behalf of and at Landlord's
           expense, without prior notice to Landlord. In addition, in the event
           of any default by Landlord under Section 20.3, 20.4 or 20.5, Tenant
           shall have the right to exercise its Purchase Option pursuant to
           Section 19.1 hereof."

        12. Option to Purchase Premises. Notwithstanding the provisions of
Section 19.1 of the Lease, in the event Tenant subdivides the Premises into
legally separate parcels or lots, Tenant may, subject to the condition set forth
in the following sentence, exercise its Purchase Option with respect to any or
all such separate parcels or lots. Landlord shall have the right to reject
Tenant's exercise of its Purchase Option with respect to less than all of such
parcels or lots, if Landlord determines in its reasonable judgment that the
value of the portion of the Premises remaining after the sale of such lot(s) or
parcel(s) will be adversely affected by such sale. Tenant shall provide to
Landlord at Tenant's sole cost and expense such documents and information
reasonably required by Landlord in order for Landlord to determine the value of
the remaining portion of the Premises, including without limitation, an
appraisal of the remaining portion of the Premises prepared by an appraiser
approved by Landlord. In the event Tenant properly exercises its Purchase Option
with respect to less than all of the Premises, the Purchase Price shall be the
portion of the Funded Amount reasonably allocated by Landlord to the portion of
the Premises being purchased under the Purchase Option, plus the amount of any
reasonable and customary fees, costs and expenses of Landlord associates with
the sale, break funding costs, if any, plus any then due and delinquent Base
Rent and Additional Rent, if any, under the Lease and the sale shall be
consummated pursuant to the terms of Section 19.1 of the Lease. Upon Tenant's
delivery to Lender of the entire Purchase Price upon the exercise of the option
to purchase a portion of the Premises, the Security Deposit and the Funded
Amount shall mean that amount set forth in Section 5.6 hereof less that portion
of the Funded Amount allocated by Landlord to the portion of the Premises being
purchased under the Purchase Option.

        Notwithstanding the provisions of the foregoing paragraph, upon the
expiration of the Term, Tenant shall be obligated to exercise its Purchase
Option with respect to all of the then remaining Premises.

        13. Mandatory Purchase/Sale of Premises. The second to the last sentence
of Section 19.2 of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:

           "In the event of default, breach or violation by Tenant of any of
           Tenant's obligations under this Section 19.2, Tenant shall have no
           liability to Landlord



                                       7
<PAGE>   8

           or any other party in excess of an amount equal to the then-existing
           Funded Amount less a credit equal to any of the Collateral or the
           Security Deposit, as the case may be, which Sumitomo or any other Fee
           Mortgagee has used, applied, or otherwise come into possession of,
           and Landlord shall have no recourse, claim or counterclaim whatsoever
           against Tenant in excess of such amount on account of such default,
           breach or violation."

        14. Additional Covenants of Landlord. The following Sections 20.4 and
20.5 shall be deleted and the following substitution in place thereof:

               "20.4 Landlord Equity. Landlord covenants and agrees that during
           the Term of the Lease, Landlord shall maintain a residual equity
           capital investment so that Landlord will not be deemed to be a
           Special Purpose Entity.

        15. Collateral. The following sentence is hereby added to Section 21.18
of the Lease:

              "Upon delivery of the Security Deposit by Tenant, the Collateral
           shall be released from the lien created by the Pledge Agreement to
           Tenant."

        16. Financial Reporting. Article 21 of the Lease is hereby amended to
add the following Section 21.23.

        "21.23 Financial Reporting. Tenant shall provide to Landlord: (i)
annually, within one hundred (100) days after the end of each of Tenant's fiscal
years during the Term, an annual report on Form 10-K for such fiscal years as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission; (ii) quarterly, within fifty
(50) days after the end of each of Tenant's first three (3) fiscal quarters of
each fiscal year during the Term, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q as filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission; and (iii) within thirty (30) days after
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission, any other reports, proxy
statements, registration statements or prospectuses filed during the Term with
the Securities and Exchange Commission."

        17. Tenant Deed of Trust. Concurrently with the effective date of this
Second Amendment, Landlord shall execute, acknowledge and cause to be recorded
in the register of deeds a deed of trust in form acceptable to Tenant ("Tenant
Deed of Trust"), which Tenant Deed of Trust shall secure Landlord's obligations
under the Lease (i) to return the Security Deposit pursuant to the terms of the
Lease and (ii) to convey the Premises to Tenant as required pursuant to Article
19 of the Lease. The Tenant Deed of Trust shall be junior only to the SBLF Deed
of Trust.



                                       8
<PAGE>   9

        18.  Change in Ownership; Landlord's Termination Option

        In the event any person or Entity unrelated to Tenant obtains more than
49% of the voting control of Tenant, Tenant shall immediately notify Landlord of
such event and Landlord shall have the option upon thirty (30) days prior
written notice to Tenant, delivered within thirty (30) days following Landlord's
receipt of written notice from Tenant of such event, to terminate this Lease. If
Landlord exercises its right to terminate the Lease pursuant to this paragraph,
Tenant shall fully exercise the Purchase Option with respect to the entire then
existing Premises no later than the date which is thirty (30) days following the
date Tenant receives the termination option exercise notice from Landlord.

        19.  Representations and Warranties.

        Tenant hereby reaffirms each and every representation and warranty of
Tenant made under Section 21.22 of the Lease.

        20. Counterparts. This Second Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which
together shall comprise but a single instrument.

        21. Existing Lease. Except to the extent specifically amended hereby,
all terms and conditions of the Lease remain in full force and effect.

                        [Signatures begin on next page.]



                                       9
<PAGE>   10

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Landlord and Tenant have executed this Second
Amendment effective as of the date and year first written above.

                                        "TENANT"

                                        CISCO SYSTEMS, INC., a California
                                        corporation



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________

                      [Signatures continued on next page.]



                                       10
<PAGE>   11

                                        "LANDLORD"

                                        SUMITOMO BANK LEASING AND FINANCE, INC.,
                                        a Delaware corporation



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________



                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:________________________________
                                           Its:_________________________________



                                       11
<PAGE>   12

                                   EXHIBIT "A"

                          Legal Description of Premises

                                [to be attached]
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.01
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>REGISTRANT'S 1999 ANNUAL REPORT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                 EXHIBIT 13.01

Selected Financial Data(1)
<TABLE>

Five Years Ended July 31, 1999 (in millions, except per-share amounts)

                                                    1999        1998         1997        1996       1995
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>       <C>
Net sales                                        $12,154      $ 8,488      $ 6,452      $ 4,101   $ 2,232
Net income                                       $ 2,096(2)   $ 1,355(3)   $ 1,051(4)   $   915   $   452(5)
Net income per common share--basic               $  0.65      $  0.44      $  0.35      $  0.32   $  0.17
Net income per common share--diluted             $  0.62(2)   $  0.42(3)   $  0.34(4)   $  0.30   $  0.16(5)

Shares used in per-share calculation--basic*       3,213        3,094        2,990        2,879     2,739
Shares used in per-share calculation--diluted*     3,398        3,245        3,128        3,004     2,869
Total assets                                     $14,725      $ 8,972      $ 5,494      $ 3,639   $ 1,997
</TABLE>
- --------------
* Reflects the stock splits effective June 1999, September 1998, December 1997,
  and February 1996, which were two-for-one, three-for-two, three-for two, and
  two-for-one, respectively.

(1)  All historical financial information has been restated to reflect the
     acquisition of GeoTel in June 1999, which was accounted for as a pooling of
     interests.

(2)  Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
     development expenses of $471 million and acquisition-related costs of $16
     million. Pro forma net income and diluted net income per share, excluding
     these nonrecurring items net of tax, would have been $2,548 million and
     $0.75, respectively.

(3)  Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
     development expenses of $594 million and realized gains on the sale of a
     minority stock investment of $5 million. Pro forma net income and diluted
     net income per share, excluding these nonrecurring items net of tax, would
     have been $1,885 million and $0.58, respectively.

(4)  Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
     development expenses of $508 million and realized gains on the sale of a
     minority stock investment of $152 million. Pro forma net income and diluted
     net income per share, excluding these nonrecurring items net of tax, would
     have been $1,416 million and $0.45, respectively.

(5)  Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
     development expenses of $96 million. Pro forma net income and diluted net
     income per share, excluding these nonrecurring items net of tax, would have
     been $512 million and $0.18, respectively.

                                       21
<PAGE>   2


All historical financial information and analysis have been restated to reflect
the acquisition of GeoTel in June 1999, which was accounted for as a pooling of
interests.

Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report, including, without
limitation, statements containing the words "believes," "anticipates,"
"estimates," "expects," and words of similar import, constitute "forward-looking
statements". You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
statements. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in
these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including risks faced by us
described in this Annual Report and in the Risk Factors sections, among others,
included in the documents Cisco files with the SEC, specifically Cisco's most
recent reports on Form 10-K and form 10-Q.

Comparison of 1999 and 1998

Net sales grew to $12.2 billion in 1999 from $8.5 billion in 1998. The 43.2%
increase in net sales during the year was primarily a result of increasing unit
sales of LAN switching products such as the Catalyst(R) 5000 family, the
Catalyst 2900 series of switches for smaller enterprise networks, access servers
such as the Cisco 2600 and 3600 families, high-performance WAN switching and
routing products including the IGX(TM) and BPX(R) switches, and the Cisco 12000
gigabit switch router (GSR) and increased maintenance service contract sales.
These increases were partially offset by lower unit sales of some of our more
established product lines, such as the Cisco 4000 and Cisco 2500 product
families. The Company is managed on four geographic theaters: the Americas;
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); Asia/Pacific; and Japan. Sales in 1999
grew 40.8% in the Americas, 52.1% in EMEA, 54.2% in Asia/Pacific and 23.3% in
Japan from 1998. The strong growth in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia/Pacific is
primarily being driven by market demand and deployment of Internet technologies
and business solutions, as well as the overall economic health within these
regions. The slower growth in Japan can be attributed to weaker economic
conditions, delayed government spending, and a stronger dollar versus the yen.

Gross margins decreased slightly to 65.1% during 1999 from 65.6% in 1998. The
decrease is due primarily to our continued shift in revenue mix towards our
lower-margin products and the continued pricing pressure seen from competitors
in certain product areas. The prices of component parts have fluctuated in the
recent past, and we expect that this trend may continue. An increase in the
price of component parts may have a material adverse impact on gross margins. We
also expect that gross margins will continue to decrease in the future, because
we believe that the market for lower-margin remote-access and switching products
for small to medium-sized businesses will continue to increase at a faster rate
than the market for our higher-margin router and high-performance switching
products. Additionally, as we focus on new market opportunities, we face
increasing competitive pressure from large telecommunications equipment
suppliers and well-funded startup companies, which may materially adversely
affect gross margins. We are attempting to mitigate this trend through various
means, such as increasing the functionality of our products, continuing value
engineering, controlling royalty costs, and improving manufacturing
efficiencies. There can be no assurance that any efforts we make in these and
other areas will successfully offset decreasing margins.

Research and development expenses increased by $568 million in 1999 compared
with 1998 expenditures, an increase to 13.1% of net sales from 12.1% in 1998.
The increase reflects our ongoing research and development efforts in a wide
variety of areas such as data, voice and video integration, digital subscriber
line (DSL) technologies, cable modem technology, wireless access, dial access,
enterprise switching, security, network management, and high-end routing
technologies, among others. A significant portion of the increase was due to the
addition of new personnel, partly through acquisitions, as well as higher
expenditures on prototypes and depreciation on additional lab equipment. For the
near future, research and development expenses are expected to increase at a
rate similar to or slightly greater

                                       22

<PAGE>   3


than the sales growth rate, as we continue to invest in technology to address
potential market opportunities. We also continue to purchase technology in order
to bring a broad range of products to the market in a timely fashion. If we
believe that we are unable to enter a particular market in a timely manner, with
internally developed products, we may license technology from other businesses
or acquire other businesses as an alternative to internal research and
development. All of our research and development costs are expensed as incurred.

Sales and marketing expenses increased by $875 million in fiscal 1999 over
fiscal 1998, an increase to 20.1% of net sales in 1999 from 18.5% in fiscal
1998. The increase is due principally to an increase in the size of our direct
sales force and its commissions, our recent television advertising campaign to
build brand awareness, additional marketing and advertising costs associated
with the introduction of new products, and the expansion of distribution
channels. The increase also reflects our efforts to invest in certain key areas
such as expansion of our end-to-end strategy and service provider coverage in
order to be positioned to take advantage of future market opportunities.

General and administrative expenses rose by $156 million in fiscal 1999 over
fiscal 1998, an increase to 3.4% from 3.1% of net sales. The increase primarily
reflects increased levels of amortization for acquisition-related intangible
assets and $16 million of costs associated with the acquisition of GeoTel. We
intend to keep general and administrative costs relatively constant as a
percentage of net sales; however, this depends on the level of acquisition
activity and amortization of the resulting intangible assets, among other
factors.

The amount expensed to purchased research and development in fiscal 1999 arose
from the purchase acquisitions of American Internet Corporation, Summa Four,
Inc., Clarity Wireless Corporation, Selsius Systems, Inc., PipeLinks, Inc., and
Amteva Technologies, Inc. (see Note 3 to the financial statements).

The fair value of the existing products and patents as well as the technology
currently under development was determined by using the income approach, which
discounts expected future cash flows to present value. The discount rates used
in the present value calculations were typically derived from a weighted average
cost of capital analysis, adjusted upward to reflect additional risks inherent
in the development life cycle. These risk factors have increased the overall
discount rate between 4% and 9.5% for acquisitions in the current year. We
expect that the pricing model for products related to these acquisitions will be
considered standard within the high-technology communications industry. However,
we do not expect to achieve a material amount of expense reductions or synergies
as a result of integrating the acquired in-process technology. Therefore, the
valuation assumptions do not include significant anticipated cost savings. We
expect that products incorporating the acquired technology from these
acquisitions will be completed and begin to generate cash flows over the six to
nine months after integration. However, development of these technologies
remains a significant risk due to the remaining effort to achieve technical
viability, rapidly changing customer markets, uncertain standards for new
products, and significant competitive threats from numerous companies. The
nature of the efforts to develop the acquired technology into commercially
viable products consists principally of planning, designing, and testing
activities necessary to determine that the product can meet market expectations,
including functionality and technical requirements. Failure to bring these
products to market in a timely manner could result in a loss of market share, or
a lost opportunity to capitalize on emerging markets, and could have a material
adverse impact on our business and operating results.

                                       23

<PAGE>   4




Regarding our purchase acquisitions completed in fiscal 1998, research and
development efforts are substantially complete and actual results to date have
been consistent, in all material respects, with our assumptions at the time of
the acquisitions. The assumptions primarily consist of an expected completion
date for the in-process projects, estimated costs to complete the projects, and
revenue and expense projections once the products have entered the market.
Products from these 1998 acquisitions have been introduced to the market in the
last nine to twelve months. Shipment volumes of products from acquired
technologies are not material to our overall position at the present time.
Therefore, it is difficult to determine the accuracy of overall revenue
projections early in the technology or product life cycle. Failure to achieve
the expected levels of revenues and net income from these products will
negatively impact the return on investment expected at the time that the
acquisition was completed and potentially result in impairment of any other
assets related to the development activities.

The following table summarizes the significant assumptions underlying the
valuations in 1999 and 1998 and the development costs we incurred in the periods
after the respective acquisition date (in millions, except percentages):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                Acquisition Assumptions                     Approximate Development
                                                                                                 Costs Incurred to
                            Estimated Cost to Complete        Risk-Adjusted Discount          Date after Acquisition on
ENTITY NAME             Technology at Time of Acquisition    Rate for In-Process R&D      Acquired In-Process Technology

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>                        <C>                          <C>
1999 PURCHASE ACQUISITIONS

American Internet Corporation        $ 1                                   25%                        $ 1
Summa Four, Inc.                     $ 5                                   25%                        $ 5
Clarity Wireless, Inc.               $42                                   32%                        $10
Selsius Systems, Inc.                $15                                   31%                        $ 4
PipeLinks, Inc.                      $ 5                                   31%                        $10
Amteva Technologies, Inc.            $ 4                                   35%                        $ 1


- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1998 PURCHASE ACQUISITIONS

Dagaz Technologies                   $10                                   35%                        $10
LightSpeed International, Inc.       $13                                   26%                        $15
WheelGroup Corporation               $ 8                                   24%                        $ 8
NetSpeed International, Inc.         $12                                   32%                        $16
CLASS Data Systems                   $ 3                                   24%                        $ 2


</TABLE>

Interest and other income, net, was $332 million in 1999 and $196 million in
1998. Interest income rose as a result of additional investment income on our
increasing investment balances.

    Our effective tax rate for fiscal 1999 was 33% excluding the 3.8% impact of
nondeductible purchased research and development. Our future effective tax rate
could be adversely affected if earnings are lower than anticipated in countries
where we have lower effective rates, or by unfavorable changes in tax laws and
regulations.

                                       24
<PAGE>   5






Comparison of 1998 and 1997

Net sales grew to $8.5 billion in 1998 from $6.5 billion in 1997. The 31.6%
increase in net sales during 1998 was primarily a result of increasing unit
sales of high-end switches such as the Catalyst 5500, access servers such as the
Cisco 3600 family, Internet and intranet access products for small offices such
as the Cisco 1600 series router, and increased service contract sales. The sales
growth rate in 1998 for lower-priced access and switching products targeting
small and medium-sized businesses increased faster than that of the Company's
high-end core router products. However, because these products carried lower
average selling prices, the 1998 growth rate slowed compared with 1997.
Additionally, some of our more established product lines, such as the Cisco 2500
product family and the Catalyst 4000, experienced decelerating growth rates.
Sales in 1998 grew 44.4% in the Americas, 36.3% in EMEA, and 18.1% in
Asia/Pacific versus 1997, but decreased 21.8% in Japan from 1997 levels.

Gross margins increased slightly to 65.6% during 1998 from 65.2% in 1997. This
increase was due principally to our improvements in value-engineering efforts
and material cost reductions, partially offset by a continued shift in product
mix to our lower-margin products and pricing pressure from competitors in
certain product areas.

Research and development expenses increased by $324 million in 1998 compared
with 1997 expenditures, an increase to 12.1% of net sales from 10.9% in 1997.
The increase reflected our ongoing research and development efforts in a wide
variety of areas such as data, voice and video integration, DSL technologies,
dial access, enterprise switch routers, security, network management, and
high-end routing technologies, among others. A significant portion of the
increase was due to the addition of new personnel, partly through acquisitions,
as well as higher expenditures on prototypes and depreciation on additional lab
equipment.

Sales and marketing expenses increased by $408 million in fiscal 1998 over
fiscal 1997, an increase to 18.5% of net sales in 1998 from 18.0% in fiscal
1997. The increase was due principally to an increase in the size of our direct
sales force and related commissions, additional marketing and advertising costs
associated with the introduction of new products, and the expansion of
distribution channels. The increase also reflected our efforts to invest in
certain key areas such as expansion of our end-to-end strategy and service
provider coverage in order to be positioned to take advantage of future market
opportunities.

General and administrative expenses rose by $56 million in fiscal 1998 over
fiscal 1997, a decrease to 3.1% from 3.2% of net sales. The dollar increase
reflected increased personnel costs necessary to support our business
infrastructure, including those associated with our European Logistics Center,
the further development of our information systems, as well as increased levels
of amortization for acquisition-related intangible assets.

                                       25

<PAGE>   6


The amount expensed to purchased research and development in fiscal 1998 arose
from the purchase acquisitions of Dagaz Technologies, LightSpeed International,
Inc., WheelGroup Corporation, NetSpeed International, Inc., and CLASS Data
Systems (see Note 3 to the financial statements).

Interest and other income, net, was $196 million in 1998 and $110 million in
1997. Interest income rose as a result of additional investment income on our
increasing investment balances. In fiscal 1997, we began selling our holdings in
a publicly traded company at amounts significantly above the cost basis of the
investment. Also in 1997, we established the Cisco Systems Foundation ("the
Foundation"). As part of this initiative, we donated a portion of this
investment, along with other equity securities, to the Foundation, with a
combined cost basis of approximately $2 million and an approximate market value
of $72 million at July 26, 1997. The realized gains on the sale of this
investment, net of the amounts donated to the Foundation, were $152 million in
fiscal 1997 (see Note 5 to the financial statements).

Recent Accounting Pronouncements

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No.
133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," which
establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and
hedging activities. It requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as
either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and measure those instruments
at fair value. We do not believe this will have a material effect on the our
operations. Implementation of this standard has recently been delayed by the
FASB for a 12-month period. The Company will now adopt SFAS 133 as required for
its first quarterly filing of fiscal year 2001.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Cash, short-term investments, and investments were $9.0 billion at July 31,
1999, an increase of $3.8 billion from July 25, 1998. The increase is primarily
a result of cash generated by operations and financing activities, primarily the
exercise of employee stock options. These cash flows were partially offset by
cash outflows from operating activities, including tax payments of approximately
$301 million and cash outflows from investing activities including capital
expenditures of approximately $584 million.

Accounts receivable decreased 4.7% during 1999. Days sales outstanding in
receivables improved to 32 days as of July 31, 1999, from 49 days as of July 25,
1998. Inventories increased 80.1% between July 31, 1999, and July 25, 1998,
which reflects new product introductions, continued growth in our two-tiered
distribution system, and the need to maintain shorter lead times on certain
products. Inventory management remains an area of focus as we balance the need
to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times with the
risk of inventory obsolescence due to rapidly changing technology and customer
requirements.

Accounts payable increased by 44.4% during 1999 primarily due to increasing
levels of raw material purchases. Other accrued liabilities increased by 83.2%
primarily due to higher deferred revenue on service contracts.

At July 31, 1999, we had a line of credit totaling $500 million, which expires
in July 2002. There have been no borrowings under this agreement (see Note 6 to
the financial statements).

We have entered into certain lease arrangements in San Jose, California, and
Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, where we have established our
headquarters operations and certain research and development and customer
support activities. In connection with these transactions, we have pledged $1.1
billion of our investments as collateral for certain obligations of the leases.
We anticipate that we will occupy more

                                       26

<PAGE>   7


leased property in the future that will require similar pledged securities;
however, we do not expect the impact of this activity to be material to our
liquidity position.

We believe that our current cash and equivalents, short-term investments, line
of credit, and cash generated from operations will satisfy our expected working
capital, capital expenditure, and investment requirements through fiscal 2000.

Risk Factors

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the other documents
we file with the SEC, including our most recent Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, are
risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially
from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in
this Annual Report.

CISCO IS EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE EXCHANGE RATES OF FOREIGN CURRENCY

As a global concern, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency
exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices
evolve and could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.
Historically, our primary exposures related to nondollar-denominated sales in
Japan, Canada, and Australia and nondollar-denominated operating expenses in
Europe, Latin America, and Asia where we sell primarily in U.S. dollars.
Additionally, we have recently seen our exposures to emerging market currencies,
such as the Brazilian real, Korean won, and Russian ruble, among others,
increase because of our expanding presence in these markets and the extreme
currency volatility. We currently do not hedge against these or any other
emerging market currencies and could suffer unanticipated gains or losses as a
result.

The increasing use of the euro as a common currency for members of the European
Union could impact our foreign exchange exposure. We are currently hedging
against fluctuations with the euro and will continue to evaluate the impact of
the euro on our future foreign exchange exposure as well as on our internal
systems.

At the present time, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with
certain assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies, and do
not hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The hedging activity
undertaken by us is intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on
certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The success of this
activity depends upon estimations of intercompany balances denominated in
various currencies, primarily the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar,
Australian dollar, and certain other European currencies. To the extent that
these forecasts are over- or understated during periods of currency volatility,
we could experience unanticipated currency gains or losses.

CISCO IS EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF ITS CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT
EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS

We are experiencing a greater proportion of our sales activity through our
partners in two-tier distribution channels. These customers are generally given
privileges to return inventory, receive credits for changes in selling prices,
and participate in cooperative marketing programs. We maintain appropriate
accruals and allowances for such exposures. However, such partners tend to have
access to more limited financial resources than other resellers and end-user
customers and therefore represent potential sources of increased credit risk. We
are experiencing increased demands for customer financing and leasing solutions,
particularly to competitive local exchange carriers ("CLECs"). CLECs typically
finance significant networking infrastructure deployments through alternative
forms of financing, including leasing, through Cisco. Although we have programs
in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance
that such programs will alleviate all of our credit risk. We also continue to
monitor increased credit exposures because of the weakened financial conditions
in Asia, and other emerging market regions, and the impact that such conditions
may have on the worldwide economy.



                                       27
<PAGE>   8


Although we have not experienced significant losses due to customers failing to
meet their obligations to date, such losses, if incurred, could harm our
business and financial position.

CISCO IS EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE FAIR VALUES OF ITS PORTFOLIO
INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES

We maintain investment portfolio holdings of various issuers, types, and
maturities. These securities are generally classified as available for sale, and
consequently, are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value with unrealized
gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other
comprehensive income, net of tax. Part of this portfolio includes minority
equity investments in several publicly traded companies, the values of which are
subject to market price volatility. We have also invested in numerous privately
held companies, many of which can still be considered in the startup or
development stages. These investments are inherently risky as the market for the
technologies or products they have under development are typically in the early
stages and may never materialize. We could lose our entire initial investment in
these companies. We also have certain real estate lease commitments with
payments tied to short-term interest rates. At any time, a sharp rise in
interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our
investment portfolio while increasing the costs associated with our lease
commitments. Conversely, declines in interest rates could have a material impact
on interest earnings for our investment portfolio. We do not currently hedge
these interest rate exposures.

The following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair values in the
financial instruments we held at July 31, 1999, that are sensitive to changes in
interest rates. These instruments are not leveraged and are held for purposes
other than trading. The modeling technique used measures the change in fair
values arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. Market changes
reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or
minus 50 basis points (BPS), 100 BPS, and 150 BPS over a 12-month time horizon.
Beginning fair values represent the market principal plus accrued interest,
dividends, and certain interest rate-sensitive securities considered cash and
equivalents for financial reporting purposes at July 31, 1999. Ending fair
values are the market principal plus accrued interest, dividends, and
reinvestment income at a 12-month time horizon. This table estimates the fair
value of the portfolio at a 12-month time horizon (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Valuation of securities                 No change                 Valuation of Securities
                              of securities given an interest rate           in interest             given an Interest rate increase
                                 decrease of X basis points rates               rate                      of X basis points
         Issuer                 (150 BPS)        (100 BPS)      (50 BPS)                       50 BPS        100 BPS      150 BPS
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>               <C>          <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
 U.S. Government notes and bonds  $2,440           $2,426         $2,411        $2,393         $2,376         $2,354       $2,341
 State, municipal, and county
   government notes and bonds      5,513            5,444          5,386         5,315          5,248          5,166        5,113
 Corporate notes and bonds         1,297            1,287          1,277         1,268          1,259          1,241        1,241
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                          $9,250           $9,157         $9,074        $8,976         $8,883         $8,761       $8,695
===================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

A 50-BPS move in the Federal Funds Rate has occurred in nine of the last ten
years; a 100-BPS move in the Federal Funds Rate has occurred in six of the last
ten years; and a 150-BPS move in the Federal Funds Rate has occurred in four of
the last ten years.

    The following analysis presents the hypothetical change in fair values of
public equity investments we held that are sensitive to changes in the stock
market. These equity securities are held for purposes other than trading. The
modeling technique used measures the hypothetical change in fair values arising
from selected hypothetical changes in each stock's price. Stock price
fluctuations of plus or minus 15%, plus or minus 35%, and plus or minus 50% were
selected based on the probability of their occurrence.

                                       28

<PAGE>   9

    This table estimates the fair value of the publicly traded corporate
equities at a 12-month time horizon (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        Valuation of security          Fair value           Valuation of Security
                                    given X% decrease in each           as of              given X% Increase in each
                                          stock's price             July 31, 1999                 stock's price
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>        <C>    <C>           <C>                    <C>           <C>    <C>
                                         (50)% (35)%  (15)%                                    15%        35%    50%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Corporate equities                     $438   $570   $745               $877                $1,009     $1,184  $1,315
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

    Our equity portfolio consists of securities with characteristics that most
closely match the S&P Index or companies traded on the NASDAQ Exchange. The
NASDAQ Composite Index has shown a 15% movement in each of the last three years,
a 35% movement in one of the last three years, and a 50% movement in none of the
last three years.

    We also are exposed to interest rate risk associated with leases on its
facilities whose payments are tied to the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
and has evaluated the hypothetical change in lease obligations held at July 31,
1999 due to changes in the LIBOR. The modeling technique used measured
hypothetical changes in lease obligations arising from selected hypothetical
changes in the LIBOR. Market changes reflected immediate hypothetical parallel
shifts in the LIBOR curve of plus or minus 50 BPS, 100 BPS, and 150 BPS over a
12-month period. The results of this analysis were not material to our financial
results.

    We enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to offset the impact of
currency fluctuations on certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities,
primarily denominated in euro, Japanese, Canadian, Australian, and certain
European currencies.

    We generally enter into forward currency contracts that have original
maturities of one to three months, with none having a maturity greater than one
year in length. The total notional values of forward contracts purchased and
forward contracts sold were $211 million and $180 million, respectively. We do
not expect gains or losses on these contracts to have a material impact on our
financial results (see Note 7 to the financial statements).

SINCE CISCO'S GROWTH RATE MAY SLOW, OPERATING RESULTS FOR A PARTICULAR QUARTER
ARE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT

We expect that in the future, our net sales may grow at a slower rate than
experienced in previous periods, and that on a quarter-to-quarter basis, our
growth in net sales may be significantly lower than our historical quarterly
growth rate. As a consequence, operating results for a particular quarter are
extremely difficult to predict. Our ability to meet financial expectations could
be hampered if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in past quarters reoccurs in
future periods. We generally have had one quarter of the fiscal year when
backlog has been reduced. Although such reductions have not occurred
consistently in recent years, they are difficult to predict and may occur in the
future. In addition, in response to customer demand, we continue to attempt to
reduce our product manufacturing lead times, which may result in corresponding
reductions in order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more
variability and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and
operating results going forward. On the other hand, for certain products, lead
times are longer than our goal. If we cannot reduce manufacturing lead times for
such products, our customers may cancel orders or not place further orders if
shorter lead times are available from other manufacturers, thus creating
additional variability.

                                       29

<PAGE>   10

CISCO IS EXPOSED TO UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS WORLDWIDE

As a result of recent unfavorable economic conditions, sales to certain
countries in the Pacific Rim, Eastern Europe, and Latin America have declined as
a percentage of our total revenue. If the economic conditions in these markets,
or other markets that recently experienced unfavorable conditions worsen, or if
these unfavorable conditions result in a wider regional or global economic
slowdown, this decline may have a material adverse impact on our business,
operations, and financial condition.

CISCO CANNOT PREDICT THE IMPACT OF RECENT ACTIONS AND COMMENTS BY THE SEC

Recent actions and comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission have
indicated they are reviewing the current valuation methodology of purchased
in-process research and development related to business combinations. The
Commission is concerned that some companies are writing off more of the value of
an acquisition than is appropriate. We believe we are in compliance with all of
the rules and related guidance as they currently exist. However, there can be no
assurance that the Commission will not seek to reduce the amount of purchased
in-process research and development previously expensed by us. This would result
in the restatement of our previously filed financial statements and could have a
material negative impact on financial results for the periods subsequent to
acquisitions. Additionally, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB")
has announced that it plans to rescind the pooling of interests method of
acquisition accounting. If this occurs, it could alter our acquisition strategy
and potentially impair our ability to acquire companies. The FASB has also
announced that it is reviewing the current accounting rules associated with
stock options. The FASB is concerned that current practice, as outlined in
Accounting Principles Board No. 25 (APB25), does not accurately reflect
appropriate compensation expense under a variety of scenarios, including the
assumption of option plans from acquired companies. The changes proposed could
make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel and could
unfavorably impact operating results.

CISCO EXPECTS GROSS MARGINS TO DECLINE OVER TIME

We expect that gross margins may be adversely affected by increases in material
or labor costs, heightened price competition, and changes in channels of
distribution or in the mix of products sold. For example, we believe that gross
margins may decline over time, because the markets for lower-margin access
products targeted toward small to medium-sized customers have continued to grow
at a faster rate than the markets for our higher-margin router and
high-performance switching products targeted toward enterprise and service
provider customers. We have recently introduced several new products, with
additional new products scheduled to be released in the near future. If warranty
costs associated with these new products are greater than we have experienced
historically, gross margins may be adversely affected. Our gross margins may
also be impacted by geographic mix, as well as the mix of configurations within
each product group. We continue to expand into third-party or indirect
distribution channels, which generally results in lower gross margins. In
addition, increasing third-party and indirect distribution channels generally
results in greater difficulty in forecasting the mix of our products, and to a
certain degree, the timing of its orders.

    We also expect that our operating margins may decrease as we continue to
hire additional personnel and increases other operating expenses to support our
business. We plan our operating expense levels based primarily on forecasted
revenue levels. Because these expenses are relatively fixed in the short term, a
shortfall in revenue could lead to operating results being below expectations.

                                       30
<PAGE>   11


YOU SHOULD EXPECT THAT CISCO'S OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS

The results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of
results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have in the past
been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of
a number of factors. These factors include:

o    The integration of people, operations, and products from acquired
     businesses and technologies

o    Increased competition in the networking industry

o    The overall trend toward industry consolidation

o    The introduction and market acceptance of new technologies and standards,
     including switch routers, Gigabit Ethernet switching, Tag Switching
     (currently also known as multiprotocol label switching [MPLS]) and data,
     voice and video capabilities

o    Variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold

o    The timing of orders and manufacturing lead times

o    The trend toward sales of integrated network solutions

o    Changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in
     the computer and networking industries

Any of these above factors could have a material adverse impact on our
operations and financial results. For example, we from time to time have made
acquisitions that result in purchased research and development expenses being
charged in an individual quarter. These charges may occur in any particular
quarter resulting in variability in our quarterly earnings. Additionally, the
dollar amounts of large orders for our products have been increasing, and
therefore the operating results for a quarter could be materially adversely
affected if a number of large orders are either not received or are delayed, for
example, due to cancellations, delays, or deferrals by customers.

THE YEAR 2000 PROBLEM MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON CISCO'S OPERATIONS AND
ABILITY TO OFFER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES WITHOUT INTERRUPTION

We are continuing to assess the impact of the year 2000 issue on our current and
future products, internal information systems, and noninformation technology
systems (equipment and systems) and has begun, and in many cases completed,
corrective efforts in these areas.

    We are using a four-phased approach to address the issue:

o    The first phase consists of the inventorying of all potential business
     disruption problems, including those with products and systems, as well as
     potential disruption from suppliers and other third parties.

o    The second phase consists of the prioritization of all the potential
     problems to allocate the appropriate level of resources to the most
     critical areas.

o    The third phase addresses the remediation programs to solve or mitigate any
     identified year 2000 problems.

o    The fourth phase consists of the development of contingency plans to
     address potential year 2000 problems that may arise with Cisco, our
     customers, and our suppliers.

We have largely completed the implementation of year 2000-compliant internal
computer applications for its main financial, manufacturing, and order
processing systems. The systems are being tested for compliance, and we do not
currently expect any significant issues to be identified during this review.
However, the failure of any internal system to achieve year 2000 readiness could
result in material disruption to our operations.

    We have also conducted extensive work regarding the status of our currently
available, developing, and installed base of products. We believe that our
current products are largely year 2000-compliant. There can be no assurance that
certain previous releases of our products that are no longer under support will
prove to be year 2000-compliant with customers' systems or within an existing
network. Further information about our products is available on our Year 2000
Internet

                                       31
<PAGE>   12




Web site. We have developed programs for customers who have indicated a need to
upgrade components of their systems. However, the inability of any of our
products to properly manage and manipulate data in the year 2000 could result in
increased warranty costs, customer satisfaction issues, potential lawsuits, and
other material costs and liabilities.

    We have completed phases I and II of our review of our supplier bases and,
in the third phase of the compliance approach, are in the process of reviewing
the state of readiness of our supplier base. This exercise includes compliance
inquiries and reviews that will continue throughout calendar 1999. Where issues
are identified with a particular supplier, contingency plans will be developed
as discussed below. Even where assurances are received from third parties there
remains a risk that failure of systems and products of other companies on which
we rely could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, if these suppliers
fail to adequately address the year 2000 issue for the products they provide to
us, critical materials, products, and services may not be delivered in a timely
manner and we may not be able to manufacture sufficient product to meet sales
demand.

    Based on the work done to date, we have not incurred material costs and do
not expect to incur future material costs in the work to address the year 2000
problem for our systems (as a result of relatively new legacy information
systems) and products.

    We have taken and will continue to take corrective action to mitigate any
significant year 2000 problems with our systems and products and believe that
the year 2000 issue for information systems will not have a material impact on
our operations or financial results. However, there can be no assurance that we
will not experience significant business disruptions or loss of business due to
an inability to adequately address the year 2000 issue. We are concerned that
many enterprises will be devoting a substantial portion of their information
systems spending to addressing the year 2000 issue. This expense may result in
spending being diverted from networking solutions in the near future. This
diversion of information technology spending could have a material adverse
impact on our future sales volume.

    Contingency plans are being developed in certain key areas, in particular
surrounding third-party manufacturers and other suppliers, to ensure that any
potential business interruptions caused by the year 2000 issue are mitigated.
Such contingency plans include identification of alternative sources of supply
and test exercises to ensure that such alternatives are able to provide us with
an adequate level of support. These plans are being developed, refined, and
tested in the last six months of calendar 1999.

    The foregoing statements are based upon our best estimates at the present
time, which were derived utilizing numerous assumptions of future events,
including the continued availability of certain resources, third-party
modification plans, and other factors. There can be no guarantee that these
estimates will be achieved and actual results could differ materially from those
anticipated. Specific factors that might cause such material differences
include, but are not limited to:

o    The availability and cost of personnel trained in this area

o    The ability to locate and correct all relevant computer codes

o    The nature and amount of programming required to upgrade or replace each of
     the affected programs

o    The rate and magnitude of related labor and consulting costs and the
     success of Cisco's external customers and suppliers in addressing the year
     2000 issue

    Our evaluation is ongoing and we expect that new and different information
will become available to us as that evaluation continues. Consequently, there is
no guarantee that all material elements will be year 2000-ready in time.

                                       32
<PAGE>   13

Consolidated Statements of Operations
(in millions, except per-share amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
YEARS ENDED                                           July 31, 1999        July 25, 1998      July 26, 1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>             <C>            <C>
NET SALES                                                 $12,154            $ 8,488            $ 6,452
Cost of sales                                               4,240              2,924              2,243
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gross margin                                              7,914              5,564              4,209
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Expenses:
  Research and development                                  1,594              1,026                702
  Sales and marketing                                       2,447              1,572              1,164
  General and administrative                                  418                262                206
  Purchased research and development                          471                594                508
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total operating expenses                                4,930              3,454              2,580
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OPERATING INCOME                                            2,984              2,110              1,629
Realized gains on sale of investment                                               5                152
Interest and other income, net                                332                196                110
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for income taxes                    3,316              2,311              1,891
Provision for income taxes                                  1,220                956                840
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  NET INCOME                                              $ 2,096            $ 1,355            $ 1,051
===============================================================================================================
Net income per common share--basic                        $  0.65            $  0.44            $  0.35
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income per common share--diluted                      $  0.62            $  0.42            $  0.34
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares used in per-share calculation--basic                 3,213              3,094              2,990
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares used in per-share calculation--diluted               3,398              3,245              3,128
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       33
<PAGE>   14
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in millions, except par value)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         July 31, 1999        July 25, 1998
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                         <C>                 <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:

  Cash and equivalents                                                      $   827             $   580
  Short-term investments                                                      1,189               1,157
  Accounts receivable, net of allowances for doubtful
    accounts of $27 in 1999 and $40 in 1998                                   1,242               1,303
  Inventories, net                                                              652                 362
  Deferred income taxes                                                         537                 345
  Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                     168                  67
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total current assets                                                    4,615               3,814

Investments                                                                   7,032               3,463
Restricted investments                                                        1,080                 554
Property and equipment, net                                                     801                 599
Other assets                                                                  1,197                 542
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      TOTAL ASSETS                                                          $14,725             $ 8,972
========================================================================================================================
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Current liabilities:

  Accounts payable                                                          $   361             $   250
  Income taxes payable                                                          630                 411
  Accrued payroll and related expenses                                          678                 392
  Other accrued liabilities                                                   1,334                 728
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total current liabilities                                               3,003               1,781

Commitments and contingencies (Note 7)

Minority interest                                                                44                  43

Shareholders' equity:

  Preferred stock, no par value, 5 shares authorized:
    none issued or outstanding in 1999 and 1998 (Note 8)

  Common stock and additional paid-in capital, $0.001 par value
    5,400 shares authorized: 3,271 shares issued and outstanding in
    1999 and 3,152 shares in 1998                                             5,524               3,262
  Retained earnings                                                           5,856               3,828
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (Note 8)                               298                  58
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total shareholders' equity                                             11,678               7,148
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      TOTAL LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY                            $14,725             $ 8,972
========================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       34
<PAGE>   15
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
(in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


YEARS ENDED                                                               July 31, 1999    July 25, 1998  July 26, 1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income                                                                 $ 2,096        $ 1,355        $ 1,051
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to
   net cash provided by operating activities:
     Depreciation and amortization                                               486            328            214
     Provision for doubtful accounts                                              19             43             13
     Provision for inventory allowances                                          151            161            123
     Deferred income taxes                                                      (207)           (60)          (186)
     Tax benefits from employee stock plans                                      837            422            274
     Adjustment to conform fiscal year ends                                        2                           (11)
       of pooled acquisitions
     Purchased research and development                                          379            436            273
       from acquisitions
     Change in operating assets and liabilities:
      Accounts receivable                                                         54           (166)          (559)
      Inventories                                                               (434)          (266)           (74)
      Prepaid expenses and other current assets                                  (97)            22              6
      Accounts payable                                                           102             28             53
      Income taxes payable                                                       218            154             86
      Accrued payroll and related expenses                                       282            127             67
      Other accrued liabilities                                                  550            306            118
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES                              4,438          2,890          1,448
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Purchases of short-term investments                                         (1,250)        (1,611)        (1,431)
  Proceeds from sales and maturities
     of short-term investments                                                 1,660          1,751          1,276
  Purchases of investments                                                    (5,632)        (3,561)        (1,762)
  Proceeds from sales and maturities
     of investments                                                            1,994          1,107          1,052
  Purchases of restricted investments                                         (1,101)          (527)          (351)
  Proceeds from sales and maturities
     of restricted investments                                                   560            337            219
  Acquisition of property and equipment                                         (584)          (417)          (332)
  Acquisition of businesses, net of cash acquired
     and purchased research and development                                      (19)                          (19)
  Net investment in leases                                                      (310)          (171)           (20)
  Other                                                                         (255)            (3)           (39)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES                                 (4,937)        (3,095)        (1,407)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Issuance of common stock                                                       740            489            308
  Common stock repurchases                                                                                    (323)
  Other                                                                            6            (10)            (5)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
        NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN)
         FINANCING ACTIVITIES                                                    746            479            (20)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase in cash and equivalents                                             247            274             21
Cash and equivalents, beginning of year                                          580            306            285
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CASH AND EQUIVALENTS, END OF YEAR                                            $   827        $   580        $   306
===========================================================================================================================
Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Transfers of securities to restricted investments                            $    --        $    --        $ 3,586
===========================================================================================================================
</TABLE>
See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                       35
<PAGE>   16
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity
(in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                Common Stock and
                                                                   Additional
                                                 Common Stock    Paid-In Capital                Accumulated Other     Total
                                                                                                  Comprehensive    Shareholders'
                                               Number of Shares     Amount    Retained Earnings       Income          Equity

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                  <C>        <C>                  <C>             <C>
BALANCE AS OF JULY 28, 1996                          2,927         $   900         $ 1,770         $   154         $ 2,824
Net income                                                                           1,051                           1,051
Change in unrealized gain on investments                                                              (109)           (109)
Translation adjustment                                                                                  (5)             (5)
                                                                                                                   -------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                   937
Issuance of common stock                               107             308                                             308
Tax benefit from employee stock plans                                  274                                             274
Common stock repurchases                               (22)            (10)           (313)                           (323)
Pooling of interest acquisitions                        17               7             (15)                             (8)
Purchase acquisitions                                   17             324                                             324
Adjustment to conform fiscal year
  ends of pooled acquisitions                                                          (11)                            (11)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE AS OF JULY 26, 1997                          3,046           1,803           2,482              40           4,325
Net income                                                                           1,355                           1,355
Change in unrealized gain on investments                                                                28              28
Translation adjustment                                                                                 (10)            (10)
                                                                                                                   -------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                 1,373
Issuance of common stock                                82             489                                             489
Tax benefit from employee stock plans                                  422                                             422
Pooling of interest acquisitions                         3              12              (9)                              3
Purchase acquisitions                                   21             536                                             536
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE AS OF JULY 25, 1998                          3,152           3,262           3,828              58           7,148
Net income                                                                           2,096                           2,096
Change in unrealized gain on investments                                                               234             234
Translation adjustment                                                                                   6               6
                                                                                                                   -------
Comprehensive income                                                                                                 2,336
Issuance of common stock                                98             740                                             740
Tax benefit from employee stock plans                                  837                                             837
Pooling of interest acquisitions                         8             115             (70)                             45
Purchase acquisitions                                   13             570                                             570
Adjustment to conform fiscal year
  ends of pooled acquisitions                                                            2                               2
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BALANCE AS OF JULY 31, 1999                          3,271         $ 5,524         $ 5,856         $   298         $11,678
=================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                       36
<PAGE>   17






1. Description of Business

Cisco Systems, Inc. (the "Company") provides networking solutions that connect
computing devices and computer networks, allowing people to access or transfer
information without regard to differences in time, place, or type of computer
system. The Company sells its products in approximately 105 countries through a
combination of direct sales and reseller and distribution channels.

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Fiscal Year The Company's fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last
Saturday in July. The fiscal year ended July 31, 1999, was a 53-week year. The
fiscal years ended July 25, 1998, and July 26, 1997, were 52-week years.

Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Cisco Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries. All significant
intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Cash and Equivalents The Company considers cash and all highly liquid
investments purchased with an original or remaining maturity of less than three
months at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Substantially all of its
cash and equivalents are custodied with three major financial institutions.

Investments The Company's investments comprise U.S., state, and municipal
government obligations and foreign and public corporate equity securities.
Investments with maturities of less than one year are considered short term and
are carried at fair value. Nearly all investments are held in the Company's name
and custodied with two major financial institutions. The specific identification
method is used to determine the cost of securities disposed of, with realized
gains and losses reflected in other income and expense. At July 31, 1999, and
July 25, 1998, substantially all of the Company's investments were classified as
available for sale. Unrealized gains and losses on these investments are
included as a separate component of shareholders' equity, net of any related tax
effect. The Company also has certain investments in nonpublicly traded
companies. These investments are included in "Other Assets" in the Company's
balance sheet and are generally carried at cost. The Company monitors these
investments for impairment and makes appropriate reductions in carrying values
when necessary.

Inventories  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is
computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in,
first-out basis.

Restricted Investments Restricted investments consist of U.S. governmental
obligations with maturities of more than one year. These investments are carried
at fair value and are restricted as to withdrawal (see Note 7). Restricted
investments are held in the Company's name and custodied with two major
financial institutions.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments Carrying amounts of certain of the Company's
financial instruments, including cash and equivalents, accrued payroll, and
other accrued liabilities, approximate fair value because of their short
maturities. The fair values of investments are determined using quoted market
prices for those securities or similar financial instruments (see Note 5).

Concentrations Cash and equivalents are, for the most part, maintained with
several major financial institutions in the United States. Deposits held with
banks may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally
these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and therefore, bear minimal risk. The
Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and, with the
exception of certain financing transactions, does not require collateral from
its customers.

                                       37
<PAGE>   18


    The Company receives certain of its custom semiconductor chips for some of
its products from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on a limited
number of hardware manufacturers. The inability of any supplier or manufacturer
to fulfill supply requirements of the Company could impact future results.

REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company generally recognizes product revenue upon
shipment of product unless there are significant post-delivery obligations or
collection is not considered probable at the time of sale. When significant
post-delivery obligations exist, revenue is deferred until such obligations are
fulfilled. Revenue from service obligations is deferred and generally recognized
ratably over the period of the obligation. The Company makes certain sales to
partners in two-tier distribution channels. These customers are generally given
privileges to return a portion of inventory and participate in various
cooperative marketing programs. The Company recognizes revenues to two-tier
distributors based on management estimates to approximate the point that
products have been sold by the distributors and also maintains appropriate
accruals and allowances for all other programs. The Company accrues for warranty
costs, sales returns, and other allowances at the time of shipment based on its
experience.

    The Company adopted Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2, "Software Revenue
Recognition," in the first quarter of fiscal year 1999 and its adoption had no
material impact on the Company's operating results or financial position.

NET INVESTMENT IN LEASES Net investment in leases represents sales-type and
direct-financing leases. These leases typically have terms of two to five years
and are usually collateralized by a security interest in the underlying assets.

ADVERTISING COSTS The Company expenses all advertising costs as they are
incurred.

SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT COSTS Software development costs, which are required to be
capitalized pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No.
86, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or
Otherwise Marketed," have not been material to the Company to date.

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Property and equipment are stated at cost and
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the
assets. Such lives vary from two and one-half to five years. Goodwill and other
intangible assets are included in other assets and are carried at cost less
accumulated amortization, which is being provided on a straight-line basis over
the economic lives of the respective assets, generally three to five years.

INCOME TAXES Income tax expense is based on pretax financial accounting income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected tax
consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their reported amounts.

COMPUTATION OF NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE Basic net income per common share is
computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during
the period. Diluted net income per common share is computed using the weighted
average number of common and dilutive common equivalent shares outstanding
during the period. Dilutive common equivalent shares consist of stock options
(see Note 12). Share and per-share data presented reflect the two-for-one stock
split effective June 1999 and the three-for-two stock splits effective September
1998 and December 1997.

FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION Substantially all of the Company's international
subsidiaries use their local currency as their functional currency. For those
subsidiaries using the local currency as their functional currency, assets and
liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date
and income and expense accounts at average exchange rates during the

                                       38
<PAGE>   19



year. Resulting translation adjustments are recorded directly to a separate
component of shareholders' equity. Where the U.S. dollar is the functional
currency, translation adjustments are recorded in income.

DERIVATIVES The Company enters into forward exchange contracts to minimize the
short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations on assets and liabilities
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting
entity. All foreign exchange forward contracts are highly inversely correlated
to the hedged items and are designated as, and considered, effective as hedges
of the underlying assets or liabilities. Gains and losses on the contracts are
included in interest and other income, net and offset foreign exchange gains or
losses from the revaluation of intercompany balances, or other current assets
and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of
the reporting entity. Fair values of exchange contracts are determined using
published rates. If a derivative contract terminates prior to maturity, the
investment is shown at its fair value with the resulting gain or loss reflected
in interest and other income, net.

MINORITY INTEREST Minority interest represents the preferred stockholders'
proportionate share of the equity of Nihon Cisco Systems, K.K. At July 31, 1999,
the Company owned all issued and outstanding common stock, amounting to 73.2% of
the voting rights. Each share of preferred stock is convertible into one share
of common stock at any time at the option of the holder.

USE OF ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, the accounting for doubtful
accounts, inventory reserves, depreciation and amortization, sales returns,
warranty costs, taxes, and contingencies. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME In the first quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 130 "Reporting Comprehensive Income". Under SFAS 130 the Company is
required to report comprehensive income, which includes the Company's net
income, as well as changes in equity from other sources. In the Company's case,
the other changes in equity included in comprehensive income comprise unrealized
gains and losses on other available-for-sale investments and the foreign
currency cumulative translation adjustment. The adoption of SFAS 130 had no
impact on the Company's net income, balance sheet, or shareholders' equity.

SEGMENT INFORMATION In 1999, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 131 "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise
and Related Information". SFAS 131 supercedes SFAS No. 14, "Financial Reporting
for Segments of a Business Enterprise". Under the new standard the Company is
required to use the "management" approach to reporting its segments. The
management approach designates that the internal organization that is used by
management for making operating decisions and assessing performance as the
source of the Company's segments. The adoption of SFAS 131 had no impact on the
Company's net income, balance sheet, or shareholders' equity.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities," which establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments and hedging activities. It requires that an entity
recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet
and measure those instruments at fair value. Management does not believe this
will have a material effect on the Company's operations. Implementation of this
standard has recently been delayed by the FASB for a 12-month period. The
Company will now adopt SFAS 133 as required for its first quarterly filing of
fiscal year 2001.

                                       39
<PAGE>   20






3. Business Combinations

Pooling of Interests Combinations

On June 24, 1999, the Company acquired GeoTel Communications Corporation
("GeoTel"). Under the terms of the agreement, 1.0276 shares of the Company's
common stock were exchanged for each outstanding share of GeoTel. Approximately
28 million shares of common stock were issued to acquire GeoTel. The Company
also assumed remaining outstanding stock options that were converted to options
to purchase approximately six million shares of the Company's common stock. The
transaction was accounted for as a pooling of interests in fiscal year 1999;
therefore, all prior periods presented have been restated.

    Prior to the merger, GeoTel used a calendar year end. Restated financial
statements of the Company combine the July 31, 1999, July 25, 1998, and July 26,
1997, results of the Company with the July 31, 1999, June 30, 1998, and June 30,
1997, results of GeoTel, respectively. No adjustments were necessary to conform
accounting policies of the entities. However, GeoTel's historical results have
been adjusted to reflect an increase in income taxes because of the elimination
of a previously provided valuation allowance on its deferred tax assets. There
were no intercompany transactions requiring elimination in any period presented.
In order for both companies to operate on the same fiscal year for 1999,
GeoTel's operations for the one-month period ending July 31, 1998, which are not
significant to the Company, have been reflected as an adjustment to retained
earnings in fiscal 1999.

    The following table shows the historical results of the Company and GeoTel
for the periods prior to the consummation of the merger of the two entities (in
millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                 Nine Months Ended                   Year Ended
                                     May 1, 1999        July 25, 1998          July 26, 1997
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>                  <C>                    <C>
Revenues:
  Cisco                               $ 8,562              $ 8,459                $ 6,440
  GeoTel                                   44                   29                     12
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                             $ 8,606              $ 8,488                $ 6,452
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income:
  Cisco as previously reported        $ 1,452              $ 1,350                $ 1,049
  GeoTel as previously reported             9                    8                      2
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                               1,461                1,358                  1,051
  Adjustment to reflect elimination
    of valuation allowances                                     (3)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net income, as restated             $ 1,461              $ 1,355                $ 1,051
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       40

<PAGE>   21


The Company has also completed a number of other pooling transactions. The
historical operations of these entities were not material to the Company's
consolidated operations on either an individual or an aggregate basis;
therefore, prior period statements have not been restated for these
acquisitions. These transactions are summarized as follows (in millions of
shares):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     Total Shares of
Fiscal Year           Acquired Companies            Cisco Stock Issued
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>                           <C>
1997                    Nashoba Networks                     7
                        Granite Systems, Inc.               10
1998                    Precept Software, Inc.               3
1999                    Fibex Systems                        6
                        Sentient Networks, Inc.              2
</TABLE>

In conjunction with these poolings, the Company also assumed the outstanding
options of these companies, which were converted to options to purchase
approximately nine million shares of the Company's common stock.

Purchase Combinations

During the three years ended July 31, 1999, the Company made a number of
purchase acquisitions. The consolidated financial statements include the
operating results of each business from the date of acquisition. Pro forma
results of operations have not been presented because the effects of these
acquisitions were not material on either an individual or an aggregate basis.

    The amounts allocated to purchased research and development were determined
through established valuation techniques in the high-technology communications
industry and were expensed upon acquisition because technological feasibility
had not been established and no future alternative uses existed. Research and
development costs to bring the products from the acquired companies to
technological feasibility are not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's future results of operations or cash flows. Amounts allocated to
goodwill and other intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods not exceeding five years. Each transaction is outlined as follows:

                                       41
<PAGE>   22






Summary of Purchase Transactions (in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     Purchased Research and        Form of Consideration
Acquired Companies             Consideration    Date   Development Charge        and Other Notes to Acquisition
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>          <C>            <C>                <C>
FISCAL 1999

American Internet Corporation    $ 58         Oct. 1998      $ 41               Common stock and options assumed; goodwill and
                                                                                other intangibles recorded of $18

Summa Four, Inc.                 $129         Nov. 1998      $ 64               Common stock and options assumed, $16 in
                                                                                liabilities assumed; goodwill and other
                                                                                intangibles recorded of $29

Clarity Wireless, Inc.           $153         Nov. 1998      $ 94               Common stock and options assumed; goodwill and
                                                                                other intangibles recorded of $73

Selsius Systems, Inc.            $134         Nov. 1998      $ 92               $111 in cash; options assumed; goodwill and other
                                                                                intangibles recorded of $41

PipeLinks, Inc.                  $118         Dec. 1998      $ 99               Common stock and options assumed; goodwill and
                                                                                other intangibles recorded of $11

Amteva Technologies, Inc.        $159         June 1999      $ 81               Common stock and options assumed; goodwill
                                                                                and other intangibles recorded of $85;
                                                                                liabilities assumed of $9
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FISCAL 1998

Dagaz Technologies, Inc.         $130         Aug. 1997      $127               $108 in cash, $18 in common stock, and
                                                                                assumed liabilities of $4

LightSpeed International, Inc.   $161         Feb. 1998      $143               Common stock and options assumed; other
                                                                                intangibles recorded of $15

WheelGroup Corporation           $124         March 1998     $ 97               Common stock and options assumed; goodwill
                                                                                and other intangibles recorded of $38

NetSpeed International, Inc.     $252         April 1998     $179               $222 in common stock and options assumed,
                                                                                $12 cash and assumed liabilities of $18;
                                                                                goodwill and other intangibles recorded of $76

CLASS Data Systems               $ 51         June 1998      $ 48               Cash of $38 and options assumed

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FISCAL 1997

Telebit Corporation              $200         Oct. 1996      $174               Cash

Netsys Technologies              $ 85         Nov. 1996      $ 43               $81 in common stock and $4 in liabilities
                                                                                assumed; goodwill and other intangibles
                                                                                recorded of $42

Skystone Systems Corporation     $ 92         July 1997      $ 89               $69 in common stock and $23 in cash

Ardent Communications            $165         July 1997      $164               Common stock

Global Internet Software Group   $ 40         July 1997      $ 38               Cash
</TABLE>

Total purchased research and development expense in 1999, 1998, and 1997 was
$471 million, $594 million, and $508 million, respectively. The purchased
research and development expense that was attributable to stock consideration in
purchase acquisitions for the same periods was $379 million, $436 million, and
$273 million, respectively.

                                       42
<PAGE>   23


Pending Business Combinations (unaudited)

In June 1999, the Company announced definitive agreements to purchase TransMedia
Communications, Inc. ("TransMedia") and StratumOne Communications, Inc.
("StratumOne"). TransMedia provides Media Gateway technology that unites the
multiple networks of public voice communications. StratumOne is a developer of
highly integrated, high-performance semiconductor technology.

    In August 1999, the Company announced definitive agreements to purchase
Calista Inc. ("Calista"); MaxComm Technologies, Inc. ("MaxComm"); Cerent
Corporation ("Cerent"); and Monterey Networks, Inc. ("Monterey"). Calista is a
developer of Internet technology that allows different business phone systems to
work together over an open Internet-based infrastructure for the first time.
MaxComm is a developer of broadband Internet technology that brings data and
multiple voice lines to consumers. Cerent is a developer of next-generation
optical transport products, and Monterey is a developer of infrastructure-class,
optical cross-connect technology that is used to increase network capacity at
the core of an optical network.

   The terms of the pending business combinations are as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Entity Name                      Consideration    Accounting Treatment
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>             <C>
TransMedia Communications, Inc.      $ 407        Pooling of interests
StratumOne Communications, Inc.        435        Pooling of interests
Calista, Inc.                           55        Purchase
MaxComm Technologies, Inc.             143        Purchase
Cerent Corporation                   6,900        Pooling of interests
Monterey Networks, Inc.                500        Purchase
</TABLE>

Consideration for each of the above transactions will be the Company's common
stock.

<PAGE>   24

4. Balance Sheet Detail (in millions)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    July 31, 1999                 July 25, 1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                 <C>                           <C>
INVENTORIES, NET:
Raw materials                         $  143                          $  76
Work in process                          198                            143
Finished goods                           276                            111
Demonstration systems                     35                             32
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                               $  652                          $ 362
===============================================================================================================
PROPERTY AND
  EQUIPMENT, NET:
Leasehold improvements                $  282                          $ 154
Computer equipment and
  related software                       628                            537
Production and engineering
  equipment                              238                            139
Office equipment, furniture,
  fixtures, and other                    676                            441
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                       1,824                          1,271

Less accumulated depreciation
  and amortization                    (1,023)                          (672)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                               $  801                          $ 599
===============================================================================================================
OTHER ASSETS, NET:

Goodwill--gross                       $  157                          $  57
Other intangibles--gross                 395                            143
Accumulated amortization
  of intangible assets                   (92)                           (30)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Intangibles, net                         460                            170
Investments in nonpublic
  companies                              196                             90
Net investment in leases                 500                            190
Other assets                              41                             92
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                               $1,197                          $ 542
===============================================================================================================
ACCRUED PAYROLL AND RELATED EXPENSES:
Accrued wages, paid time
  off, and related expenses           $  318                          $ 172
Accrued commissions                      138                             83
Accrued bonuses                          222                            137
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                               $  678                          $ 392
===============================================================================================================
OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES:
Deferred revenue                      $  724                          $ 339
Accrued warranties                        67                             48
Other liabilities                        543                            341
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                               $1,334                          $ 728
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Amortization expense of intangible assets for the fiscal years ended July 31,
1999, July 25, 1998, and July 26, 1997, was $62 million, $23 million, and $11
million, respectively.

                                       43
<PAGE>   25




5. Investments

The following tables summarize the Company's investments in securities (in
millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           Amortized      Gross Unrealized  Gross Unrealized         Fair
July 31, 1999                                Cost              Gains             Losses              Value
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>               <C>                                   <C>
U.S. government notes and bonds             $2,187            $                 $   (29)            $2,158
State, municipal, and county
  government notes and bonds                 5,177                5                 (44)             5,138
Corporate notes and bonds                    1,145                                  (17)             1,128
Corporate equity securities                    288              615                 (26)               877
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                     $8,797            $ 620             $  (116)            $9,301
===============================================================================================================
Reported as:

Short-term investments                                                                              $1,189
Investments                                                                                          7,032
Restricted investments                                                                               1,080
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                                                             $9,301
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           Amortized    Gross Unrealized   Gross Unrealized        Fair
July 25, 1998                                Cost             Gains             Losses             Value
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>                <C>              <C>               <C>
U.S. government notes and bonds            $  978             $  3             $ (1)             $  980
State, municipal, and county
  government notes and bonds                3,216               11               (3)              3,224
Foreign government notes and bonds             31                                                    31
Corporate notes and bonds                     768                1               (1)                768
Corporate equity securities                    55              137              (21)                171
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                    $5,048             $152             $(26)             $5,174
===============================================================================================================

Reported as:

Short-term investments                                                                           $1,157
Investments                                                                                       3,463
Restricted investments                                                                              554
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                                                          $5,174
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>


The following table summarizes debt maturities (including restricted
investments) at July 31, 1999 (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                    Amortized Cost     Fair Value
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                     <C>               <C>
Less than one year                                                      $1,403            $1,397
Due in 1-2 years                                                         1,447             1,442
Due in 2-5 years                                                         5,064             5,005
Due after 5 years                                                          595               580
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                                                 $8,509            $8,424
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

During fiscal year 1997, the Company began to sell its minority equity position
in a publicly traded company, which was completed in fiscal year 1998. Also, in
fiscal 1997, the Company established the Cisco Systems Foundation ("the
Foundation"). As part of this initiative, the Company donated a portion of the
equity investment, along with other equity securities to the Foundation, with a
combined cost basis of approximately $2 million and an approximate fair value of
$72 million at July 26, 1997. The realized gains reported on the sale of this
investment, net of the 1997 donation to the Foundation, were $152 million in
fiscal 1997 and $5 million in fiscal 1998.

                                       44
<PAGE>   26

6. Line of Credit

As of July 31, 1999, the Company had a syndicated credit agreement under the
terms of which a group of banks committed a maximum of $500 million on an
unsecured, revolving basis for cash borrowings of various maturities. The
commitments made under this agreement expire on July 1, 2002. Under the terms of
the agreement, borrowings bear interest at a spread over the London Interbank
Offered Rate based on certain financial criteria and third-party rating
assessments. As of July 31, 1999, this spread was 20 basis points. From this
spread, a commitment fee of seven basis points is assessed against any undrawn
amounts. The agreement includes a single financial covenant that places a
variable floor on tangible net worth, as defined, if certain leverage ratios are
exceeded. There have been no borrowings under this agreement.

7. Commitments and Contingencies

Leases

The Company has entered into several agreements to lease 448 acres of land
located in San Jose, California, where it has established its headquarters
operations, and 45 acres of land located in Research Triangle Park, North
Carolina, where it has expanded certain research and development and customer
support activities. All of the leases have initial terms of five to seven years
and options to renew for an additional three to five years, subject to certain
conditions. At any time during the terms of these land leases, the Company may
purchase the land. If the Company elects not to purchase the land at the end of
each of the leases, the Company has guaranteed a residual value of $592 million.

     The Company has also entered into agreements to lease certain buildings to
be constructed on the land described above. The lessors of the buildings have
committed to fund up to a maximum of $993 million (subject to reductions based
on certain conditions in the respective leases) for the construction of the
buildings, with the portion of the committed amount actually used to be
determined by the Company. Rent obligations for the buildings commenced on
various dates and will expire at the same time as the land leases.

    The Company has an option to renew the building leases for an additional
three to five years, subject to certain conditions. The Company may, at its
option, purchase the buildings during or at the ends of the terms of the leases
at approximately the amount expended by the lessors to construct the buildings.
If the Company does not exercise the purchase options by the ends of the leases,
the Company will guarantee a residual value of the buildings as determined at
the lease inception date of each agreement (approximately $569 million at July
31, 1999).

     As part of the above lease transactions, the Company restricted $1.1
billion of its investment securities as collateral for specified obligations of
the lessors under the leases. These investment securities are restricted as to
withdrawal and are managed by a third party subject to certain limitations under
the Company's investment policy. In addition, the Company must maintain a
minimum consolidated tangible net worth, as defined, of $2.8 billion.

    The Company also leases office space in Santa Clara, California; Chelmsford,
Massachusetts; and for its various U.S. and international sales offices.

    Future annual minimum lease payments under all noncancelable operating
leases as of July 31, 1999, are as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                                    <C>
2000                                 $  156
2001                                    143
2002                                    122
2003                                    109
2004                                     97
Thereafter                              448
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total minimum lease payments         $1,075
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>


Rent expense totaled $121 million, $90 million, and $65 million for 1999, 1998,
and 1997, respectively.

                                       45
<PAGE>   27


Forward Exchange Contracts

The Company conducts business on a global basis in several major international
currencies. As such, it is exposed to adverse movements in foreign currency
exchange rates. The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to
reduce certain currency exposures. These contracts hedge exposures associated
with nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities denominated in Japanese,
Canadian, Australian, and several European currencies, including the euro. At
the present time, the Company hedges only those currency exposures associated
with certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities and does not
generally hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows.

    The Company does not enter into forward exchange contracts for trading
purposes. Gains and losses on the contracts are included in interest and other
income, net and offset foreign exchange gains or losses from the revaluation of
intercompany balances or other current assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the functional currency of the reporting entity. The
Company's forward currency contracts generally range from one to three months in
original maturity. Forward exchange contracts outstanding and their unrealized
gains and (losses) as of July 31, 1999, are summarized as follows (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                               Notional
                                Value                  Notional            Unrealized
                              Purchased              Value Sold            Gain/(Loss)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>                   <C>                    <C>
Japanese yen                      $                     $ (49)             $
Australian dollar                                         (58)
Canadian dollar                                           (73)
Euro                            150
British pound
  sterling                       33
Other European
  currencies                     12
Other Asian
  currencies                     16
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                      $ 211                     $(180)             $   --
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>


The Company's forward exchange contracts contain credit risk in that its banking
counterparties may be unable to meet the terms of the agreements. The Company
minimizes such risk by limiting its counterparties to major financial
institutions. In addition, the potential risk of loss with any one party
resulting from this type of credit risk is monitored. Management does not expect
any material losses as a result of default by other parties.

Legal Proceedings

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to legal proceedings, claims, and
litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company's management
does not expect that the ultimate costs to resolve these matters will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position,
results of operations, or cash flows.

8. Shareholders' Equity

Par Value At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on November 13, 1997, the
shareholders approved an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation changing the
par value of the Company's Common Stock from zero to $0.001 per share. As a
result, the Company has transferred the additional paid-in capital to a separate
account; however, for financial statement purposes, the additional paid-in
capital account has been combined with the common stock account and reflected on
the balance sheet as "Common stock and additional paid-in capital."

Stock Splits In May 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved a
two-for-one split of the Company's common stock that was applicable to
shareholders of record on May 24, 1999, and effective on June 21, 1999. All
references to share and per-share data for all periods presented have been
adjusted to give effect to this two-for-one stock split and the two
three-for-two stock splits effective September 1998 and December 1997.

                                       46
<PAGE>   28


Shareholder Rights Plan In June 1998, the Company's Board of Directors approved
a Shareholders' Rights Plan. This plan is intended to protect shareholders'
rights in the event of an unsolicited takeover attempt. It is not intended to
prevent a takeover of the Company on terms that are favorable and fair to all
shareholders and will not interfere with a merger approved by the Board of
Directors. Each right entitles shareholders to buy a "unit" equal to one
thirty-thousandth of a new share of Series A Preferred Stock of the Company. The
rights will be exercisable only if a person or a group acquires or announces a
tender or exchange offer to acquire 15% or more of the Company's common stock.

In the event the rights become exercisable, the rights plan allows for Cisco
shareholders to acquire, at an exercise price of $216 per right owned, stock of
the surviving corporation having a market value of $433, whether or not Cisco is
the surviving corporation. The dividend was distributed to shareholders of
record in June 1998. The rights, which expire June 2008, are redeemable for
$0.00033 per right at the approval of the Company's Board of Directors.

Preferred Stock Under the terms of the Company's Articles of Incorporation, the
Board of Directors may determine the rights, preferences, and terms of the
Company's authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock.

Comprehensive Income

The Company has adopted SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income", as of
the first quarter of fiscal 1999. SFAS No. 130 establishes new rules for the
reporting and display of comprehensive income and its components, however, it
had no impact on the Company's net income or total shareholders' equity.

    The components of comprehensive income are as follows (in millions):


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                July 31, 1999     July 25, 1998     July 26, 1997
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                  <C>            <C>               <C>
Net income                                                                           $2,096         $ 1,355           $  1,051
Other comprehensive income (loss):
  Change in unrealized gain (loss) on investments, net of tax (provision)
  benefit of ($144), ($17), and $9 in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively                234              25                (14)

  Reclassification for unrealized gains previously included in net income, net
  of tax (provision) benefit of ($2) and $57 in 1998 and 1997, respectively                               3                (95)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net unrealized gain (loss)                                                           234              28               (109)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Change in accumulated translation adjustments                                          6             (10)                (5)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total comprehensive income                                                      $2,336         $ 1,373           $    937
===================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

9. Employee Benefit Plans

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("the Purchase Plan") under
which 111 million shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance.
Eligible employees may purchase a limited number of shares of the Company's
stock at 85% of the market value at certain plan-defined dates.

In November 1997, the shareholders approved an amendment to the Purchase Plan,
which, among other changes, increased the maximum number of shares of Common
Stock authorized for issuance over the term of the Purchase Plan by 68 million
common shares, which is reflected in the number above, and extended the term of
the Plan from January 3, 2000, to January 3, 2005. In fiscal 1999, 1998, and
1997, five million, seven million, and six million shares, respectively, were
issued under the Purchase Plan. At July 31, 1999, 65 million shares were
available for issuance under the Purchase Plan.


                                       47
<PAGE>   29


Stock Option Plans

The Company has two main stock option plans: the 1987 Stock Option Plan (the
"Predecessor Plan") and the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1996 Plan"). All
outstanding options under the Predecessor Plan were transferred to the 1996
Plan. However, all outstanding options under the Predecessor Plan continue to be
governed by the terms and conditions of the existing option agreements for those
grants. The maximum number of shares under the 1996 Plan was initially limited
to the 310 million shares transferred from the Predecessor Plan. However, under
the terms of the 1996 Plan, the share reserve increases each December for the
three fiscal years beginning with fiscal 1997, by an amount equal to 4.75% of
the outstanding shares on the last trading day of the immediately preceding
November. In fiscal year 1999, the Company's shareholders approved the extension
of the automatic share increase provision of the 1996 plan for an additional
three-year period. Although the Board has the authority to set other terms, the
options are generally 25% exercisable one year from the date of grant and then
ratably over the following 36 months. Options issued under the Predecessor Plan
generally had terms of five years. New options granted under the 1996 Plan
expire no later than nine years from the grant date.

    A summary of option activity follows (in millions, except per-share
amounts):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      Options Outstanding
                                              Options Available                Weighted Average
                                                 for Grant       Options         Exercise Price
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                <C>         <C>
Balances, July 28, 1996                               76           312          $    5.09

Granted and assumed                                 (192)          192              10.83
Exercised                                                          (79)              2.84
Canceled                                              21           (21)              7.64
Additional shares reserved                           143
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances, July 26, 1997                               48           404               8.13

Granted and assumed                                 (129)          129              21.72
Exercised                                                          (76)              5.31
Canceled                                              22           (22)              9.87
Additional shares reserved                           147

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances, July 25, 1998                               88           435              12.56

Granted and assumed                                 (107)          107              49.58
Exercised                                                          (93)              6.85
Canceled                                              10           (10)             24.66
Additional shares reserved                           165
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances, July 31, 1999                              156           439          $   22.52
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

    The Company has, in connection with the acquisition of various companies,
assumed the stock option plans of each acquired company. A total of 30 million
shares of the Company's common stock have been reserved for issuance under the
assumed plans, and the related options are included in the preceding table.


                                       48
<PAGE>   30




    The following tables summarize information concerning outstanding and
exercisable options at July 31, 1999 (in millions, except number of years and
per-share amounts):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                      Options Outstanding                                      Options Exercisable
                                       Weighted Average        Weighted Average                             Weighted Average
   Range of              Number       Remaining Contractual     Exercise Price              Number           Exercise Price
Exercise Prices        Outstanding      Life (in Years)            per Share              Exercisable          per Share
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>            <C>                      <C>                        <C>              <C>
$ 0.01 -  9.00             76                  4.2                  $ 5.34                   66                 $ 5.54
  9.01 - 11.11             89                  6.4                   10.59                   52                  10.63
 11.12 - 18.08             78                  6.5                   13.87                   40                  13.57
 18.09 - 24.54             79                  7.6                   23.74                   22                  23.64
 24.55 - 68.25            117                  8.4                   47.69                    5                  29.12
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                     439                  6.8                  $22.52                  185                 $11.50
==============================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

At July 25, 1998, and July 26, 1997, approximately 156 million, and 112 million
outstanding options, respectively, were exercisable. The weighted average
exercise prices for options were $7.27 and $4.59 at July 25, 1998, and

July 26, 1997, respectively.

     SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," ("SFAS 123"),
requires the Company to disclose pro forma information regarding option grants
made to its employees. SFAS 123 specifies certain valuation techniques that
produce estimated compensation charges that are included in the pro forma
results below. These amounts have not been reflected in the Company's Statement
of Operations, because APB 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
specifies that no compensation charge arises when the price of the employees'
stock options equal the market value of the underlying stock at the grant date,
as in the case of options granted to the Company's employees.

    SFAS 123 pro forma numbers are as follows (in millions, except per-share
amounts and percentages):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          1999             1998            1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>              <C>             <C>
Net income--as reported under APB 25                                     $2,096           $1,355          $1,051
Net income--pro forma under SFAS 123                                     $1,598           $1,108          $  899
Basic net income per common share--as reported under APB 25              $ 0.65           $ 0.44          $ 0.35
Diluted net income per common share--as reported under APB 25            $ 0.62           $ 0.42          $ 0.34
Basic net income per common share--pro forma under SFAS 123              $ 0.50           $ 0.36          $ 0.30
Diluted net income per common share--pro forma under SFAS 123            $ 0.47           $ 0.35          $ 0.29
</TABLE>

Under SFAS 123, the fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following weighted
average assumptions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           Employee Stock Options      Employee Stock Purchase Plan
                                            1999   1998   1997            1999   1998   1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>     <C>    <C>          <C>       <C>    <C>
Expected dividend yield                      0.0%   0.0%   0.0%           0.0%    0.0%   0.0%
Risk-free interest rate                      5.1%   5.7%   6.4%           4.9%    5.4%   5.3%
Expected volatility                         40.2%  35.6%  32.8%          47.2%   44.8%  44.4%
Expected life (in years)                     3.1    3.1    3.1            0.5     0.5    0.5
</TABLE>


                                       49
<PAGE>   31




The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully
transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly
subjective assumptions including the expected stock price volatility. Because
the Company's employee stock options have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single measure
of the fair value of the Company's options. The weighted average estimated fair
values of employee stock options granted during fiscal 1999, 1998, and 1997 were
$16.79, $7.14, and $3.47 per share, respectively.

    The above pro forma disclosures are also not likely to be representative of
the effects on net income and net income per common share in future years,
because they do not take into consideration pro forma compensation expense
related to grants made prior to the Company's fiscal year 1996.

Employee 401(k) Plans

The Company has adopted a plan known as the Cisco Systems, Inc. 401(k) Plan
("the Plan") to provide retirement and incidental benefits for its employees. As
allowed under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, the Plan provides
tax-deferred salary deductions for eligible employees. The Company also has
other 401(k) plans which it administers. These plans arose from acquisitions of
other companies and are not material to the Company on either an individual or
aggregate basis.

    Employees may contribute from 1% to 15% of their annual compensation to the
Plan, limited to a maximum annual amount as set periodically by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Company matches employee contributions dollar for dollar up
to a maximum of $1,500 per year per person. All matching contributions vest
immediately. In addition, the Plan provides for discretionary contributions as
determined by the Board of Directors. Such contributions to the Plan are
allocated among eligible participants in the proportion of their salaries to the
total salaries of all participants. Company matching contributions to the Plan
totaled $20 million in 1999, $15 million in 1998, and $13 million in 1997. No
discretionary contributions were made in 1999, 1998, or 1997.

10. Income Taxes

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of (in millions):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                     1999                  1998                  1997
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>                     <C>                   <C>
Federal:
  Current                                         $ 1,164                 $ 855                 $ 845
  Deferred                                           (184)                  (39)                 (172)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      980                   816                   673
====================================================================================================================
State:
  Current                                             112                    87                   153
  Deferred                                            (21)                   (7)                  (15)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       91                    80                   138
====================================================================================================================
Foreign:
  Current                                             151                    74                    28
  Deferred                                             (2)                  (14)                    1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                      149                    60                    29
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total provision for income taxes              $ 1,220                 $ 956                 $ 840
====================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       50

<PAGE>   32




The Company paid income taxes of $301 million, $440 million, and $659 million,
in fiscal 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

    Income (loss) before provision for income taxes consisted of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        1999          1998           1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
U.S.                                                    $2,205         1,990          2,011
International                                            1,111           321           (120)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                        $3,316        $2,311         $1,891
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The items accounting for the difference between income taxes computed at the
federal statutory rate and the provision for income taxes follow:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1999          1998          1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>           <C>
Federal statutory rate                                   35.0%         35.0%         35.0%
Effect of:
  State taxes, net of federal benefits                    2.2           2.2           4.5
  Foreign sales corporation                              (1.6)         (2.4)         (3.3)
  Foreign income at other than U.S. rates                (1.0)
  Nondeductible purchased R&D                             3.8           6.4           7.1
  Tax-exempt interest                                    (1.9)         (1.6)         (1.0)
  Tax credits                                            (1.2)         (1.4)         (1.3)
  Other, net                                              1.5           3.2           3.4
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         36.8%         41.4%         44.4%
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes were not provided for on a
cumulative total of approximately $133 million of undistributed earnings for
certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. The Company intends to reinvest these earnings
indefinitely in operations outside the United States. The components of the
deferred income tax assets (liabilities) follow (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                  July 31, 1999             July 25 1998
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                  <C>                     <C>
Assets

Allowance for doubtful accounts and returns                             $225                     $134
Other nondeductible accruals                                             200                      131
Purchased research and development                                        75                       92
Inventory allowances and capitalization                                   57                       68
Depreciation                                                              56                       24
Accrued state franchise tax                                               32                       28
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total deferred tax assets                                              645                      477
===============================================================================================================

Liabilities

Deferred revenue                                                          (5)                     (26)
Unrealized gain on investments                                          (192)                     (48)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total deferred tax liabilities                                        (197)                     (74)
===============================================================================================================
                                                                        $448                     $403
</TABLE>

                                       51
<PAGE>   33




The noncurrent portion of the deferred income tax (liabilities)/assets, which
totaled ($89) million at July 31, 1999, and $58 million at July 25, 1998, is
included in other assets.

    The Company's income taxes payable for federal, state, and foreign purposes
have been reduced by the tax benefits of disqualifying dispositions of stock
options. The Company receives an income tax benefit calculated as the difference
between the market value of the stock issued at the time of exercise and the
option price, tax effected.

11. Segment Information and Major Customers

The Company's operations involve the design, development, manufacture,
marketing, and technical support of networking products and services. The
Company offers end-to-end networking solutions for its customers. Cisco products
include routers, LAN and ATM switches, dialup access servers, and network
management software. These products, integrated by the Cisco IOS(R) software,
link geographically dispersed LANs, WANs, and IBM networks.

The Company conducts business globally and is managed geographically. The
Company's management relies on an internal management accounting system. This
system includes sales and standard cost information by geographic theater. Sales
are attributed to a theater based on the ordering location of the customer. The
Company's management makes financial decisions and allocates resources based on
the information it receives from this internal system. Information from this
internal management system differs from the amounts reported under generally
accepted accounting principles due to certain corporate level adjustments. These
corporate level adjustments are primarily sales related reserves, credit memos,
and returns. Based on the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 131, the Company has
four reportable segments: the Americas, EMEA, Asia/Pacific, and Japan.

Summarized financial information by segment for 1999, 1998, and 1997, as taken
from the internal management information system discussed above, is as follows
(in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                        1999       1998         1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>          <C>         <C>
Net sales:
    Americas                         $  8,069     $ 5,731     $ 3,968
    EMEA                                3,216       2,114       1,551
    Asia/Pacific                          825         535         453
    Japan                                 566         459         587
    Corporate adjustments                (522)       (351)       (107)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total                          $ 12,154     $ 8,488     $ 6,452
===============================================================================================================
 Standard margin(1):
   Americas                          $  5,836     $ 4,260
   EMEA                                 2,380       1,565
   Asia/Pacific                           586         395
   Japan                                  436         340
   Corporate adjustments               (1,324)       (996)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                           $  7,914     $ 5,564
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>


(1)Standard margin by theater was not tracked by the Company prior to fiscal
year 1998.

                                       52
<PAGE>   34

The standard margins above differ from the amounts recognized under generally
accepted accounting principles because the Company does not allocate certain
production overhead, manufacturing variances, and other production related costs
to the theaters.

Enterprise-wide information is provided in accordance with SFAS 131. Geographic
sales information is based on the ordering location of the customer. Property
and equipment information is based on the physical location of the assets. The
following is net sales and property and equipment information for geographic
areas (in millions):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                           1999                     1998                    1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>                      <C>                     <C>
Net sales:
  U.S                                    $  7,435                 $ 5,231                 $ 3,615
  All other countries                       5,241                   3,608                   2,944
Corporate adjustments                        (522)                   (351)                   (107)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                $ 12,154                 $ 8,488                 $ 6,452
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Property and equipment, net:
  U.S                                    $    687                 $   527                 $   412
  All other countries                         114                      72                      56
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                $    801                 $   599                 $   468
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

In 1999, 1998, and 1997 no single customer accounted for 10% or more of the
Company's net sales.

12. Net Income per Common Share

The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net income per
common share as required under SFAS 128 (in millions, except per-share amounts):

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1999          1998         1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>           <C>          <C>
Net income                                               $2,096        $1,355       $1,051
===============================================================================================================
Weighted average shares--basic                            3,213         3,094        2,990
Effect of dilutive securities: employee stock options       185           151          138
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average shares--diluted                          3,398         3,245        3,128
===============================================================================================================
Net income per common share--basic                       $ 0.65        $ 0.44       $ 0.35
Net income per common share--diluted                     $ 0.62        $ 0.42       $ 0.34
===============================================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       53
<PAGE>   35




To the Board of Directors and
Shareholders of Cisco Systems, Inc.

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations and of shareholders' equity and of cash
flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Cisco
Systems, Inc. and its subsidiaries at July 31, 1999 and July 25, 1998, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended July 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, which require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California

August 10, 1999

                                       54
<PAGE>   36
Supplementary Financial Data (unaudited)
(in millions, except purchase amounts)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                    July 31,      May 1,   Jan. 23,    Oct. 24      July 25,     April 25,    Jan. 24,    Oct. 25,
                                      1999         1999      1999       1998          1998         1998         1998        1997
                                    --------      ------   --------    -------      -------      ---------    --------    --------
<S>                                 <C>          <C>       <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>          <C>       <C>
Net sales                           $3,548       $3,165    $2,844       $2,597       $2,400       $2,192       $2,022    $1,874
Gross margin                         2,297        2,060     1,857        1,700        1,579        1,440        1,324     1,221
Operating income                       894          880       483          727          698          275          660       477

Income before provision
    for income taxes                   988          971       564          793          759          328          705       519
Net income                          $  635(1)    $  650    $  293(2)    $  518(3)    $  493(4)    $   67(5)    $  457    $  338(6)
Net income per common
    share--basic*                   $  .19(1)    $  .20    $  .09(2)    $  .16(3)    $  .16(4)    $  .02(5)    $  .15       .11(6)

Net income per common
    share--diluted*                 $  .18(1)    $  .19    $  .09(2)    $  .16(3)    $  .15(4)    $  .02(5)    $  .14 $     .11(6)

</TABLE>
* Reflects the 2-for-1 stock split effective June 1999 and the 3-for-2 stock
split effective September 1998.

(1)     Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
        development expenses of $81 million. Pro forma net income and net income
        per share, excluding this nonrecurring item net of tax, would have been
        $727 million and $0.21, respectively.

(2)     Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
        development expenses of $349 million. Pro forma net income and net
        income per share, excluding this nonrecurring item net of tax, would
        have been $611 million and $0.18, respectively.

(3)     Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
        development expenses of $41 million. Pro forma net income and net income
        per share, excluding this nonrecurring item net of tax, would have been
        $560 million and $0.17, respectively.

(4)     Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
        development expenses of $48 million. Pro forma net income and net income
        per share, excluding this nonrecurring item net of tax, would have been
        $525 million and $0.16, respectively.

(5)     Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
        development expenses of $419 million. Pro forma net income and net
        income per share, excluding this nonrecurring item net of tax, would
        have been $486 million and $0.15, respectively

(6)     Net income and net income per share include purchased research and
        development expenses of $127 million and realized gains on the sale of a
        minority stock investment of $5 million. Pro forma net income and
        diluted net income per share, excluding these nonrecurring items net of
        tax, would have been $417 million and $0.13, respectively.

Stock Market Information

Cisco Systems' common stock (NASDAQ symbol CSCO) is traded on the NASDAQ
National Market. The following table sets forth the range of high and low
closing prices for each period indicated, adjusted to reflect the two-for-one
split effective June 1999 and three-for-two splits effective September 1998 and
December 1997:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                            1999                      1998                      1997
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       High      Low             High      Low             High      Low
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                    <C>     <C>              <C>      <C>              <C>       <C>
    First quarter      $34.65  $21.94           $18.74   $15.50           $14.89    $11.11
    Second quarter      53.34   30.37            20.10    16.19            16.64     12.81
    Third quarter       59.37   47.56            24.62    18.87            15.50     10.31
    Fourth quarter      67.06   52.18            34.40    23.48            17.86     10.33
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The Company has never paid cash dividends on the common stock and has no present
plans to do so. There were approximately 29,600 shareholders of record on July
31, 1999.

                                       55


<PAGE>   37




Directors and Officers

Directors
Carol A. Bartz (3)
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Autodesk, Inc.

John T. Chambers (1) (4) (5) (6) (8)
President and Chief Executive Officer
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Mary A. Cirillo (3) (7)
Chief Executive Officer, Global Institutional Services
Divisional Board Member, Global Technology and Services
Deutsche Bank

James F. Gibbons, Ph.D. (2) (4)
Reid Weaver Dennis Professor of Electrical Engineering
and Special Consul for Industrial Relations
Stanford University

Edward R. Kozel (7) (8)
Senior Vice President, Corporate Development
Cisco Systems, Inc.

James C. Morgan (2)
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Applied Materials, Inc.

John P. Morgridge (1) (5) (6) (7)
Chairman of the Board
Cisco Systems, Inc.

Robert L. Puette (2) (3) (4) (5)
President and Chief Executive Officer
Centigram Communications Corp.

Arun Sarin
Chief Executive Officer, USA/Asia Pacific Region
Vodafone AirTouch, Plc

Masayoshi Son
President and Chief Executive Officer
SOFTBANK Corp.

Donald T. Valentine (1) (5) (7)
General Partner
Sequoia Capital

Steven M. West (3)
President and Chief Executive Officer
Entera, Inc.

(1)     Member of the Executive Committee

(2)     Member of the Compensation/Stock Option Committee

(3)     Member of the Audit Committee

(4)     Member of the Nomination Committee

(5)     Member of the Acquisition Committee

(6)     Member of the Special Stock Option Committee

(7)     Member of the Investment Committee

(8)     Member of the Special Acquisition Committee


Officers
Larry R. Carter
Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration
Chief Financial Officer and Secretary

John T. Chambers
President and Chief Executive Officer

Gary J. Daichendt
Executive Vice President
Worldwide Operations

Judith Estrin
Senior Vice President, Business Development
Chief Technology Officer


<PAGE>   38




Charles H. Giancarlo
Senior Vice President
Small/Medium Business Line of Business

Edward R. Kozel
Senior Vice President, Corporate Development

Donald J. Listwin
Executive Vice President
Service Provider and Consumer Lines of Business
Corporate Marketing

Mario Mazzola
Senior Vice President
Enterprise Line of Business

Carl Redfield
Senior Vice President
Manufacturing and Worldwide Logistics
Other Senior Vice Presidents

Douglas C. Allred
Senior Vice President, Customer Advocacy

Barbara Beck
Senior Vice President, Human Resources

Howard S. Charney
Senior Vice President, Office of the President

William G. Conlon
Senior Vice President
Customer Advocacy Global Support Operations

Richard J. Justice
Senior Vice President, Americas

Kevin J. Kennedy
Senior Vice President
Service Provider Line of Business

Clifford B. Meltzer
Senior Vice President/General Manager
Cisco IOS Technologies Division

William R. Nuti
Senior Vice President, EMEA Operations

James Richardson
Senior Vice President

Daniel Scheinman
Senior Vice President, Legal and Government Affairs

Peter Solvik
Senior Vice President, Chief Information Officer

John Thibault
Senior Vice President
Applications Technology Group

Michelangelo Volpi
Senior Vice President
Business Development and Global Alliances

F. Selby Wellman
Senior Vice President/General Manager
InterWorks Business Unit

Shareholder Information
Online Annual Report
We invite you to visit our online interactive annual report at
www.cisco.com/annualreport/1999/. In this version you will find our
shareholders' letter in multiple languages, a financial section, and additional
company and product information. This Web-based report complements our printed
report, giving you a comprehensive understanding of Cisco Systems.


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21.01
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES OF THE COMPANY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                   EXHIBIT 21.01


                                  SUBSIDIARIES

Cisco Systems Canada Limited
Cisco Systems Europe, S.A.R.L. (France)
Cisco Systems Import/Export Corporation (U.S. Virgin Islands)
Cisco Systems Belgium, S.A.
Cisco Systems Limited (U.K.)
Cisco Systems Australia PTY. Limited
Nihon Cisco Systems, K.K. (Japan)
Cisco Systems de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Cisco Systems New Zealand Limited
Cisco Systems (HK) Limited (Hong Kong)
Cisco Systems GmbH (Germany)
Cisco Systems (Italy) Srl
Cisco Systems GmbH (Austria)
Cisco do Brasil Ltda. (Brazil)
Cisco Systems (Korea) Ltd.
VZ, Cisco Systems, C.A. (Venezuela)
Cisco Systems South Africa (Pty) Ltd.
Cisco Systems Sweden Aktiebolag
Cisco Systems (Switzerland) AG
Cisco Systems Capital, B.V.
Cisco Systems International Netherlands, B.V.
Cisco Systems Czech Republic, s.r.o.
Cisco Systems Spain, S.L.
Cisco Systems Argentina S.A.
Cisco Systems Chile, S.A.
Cisco Sistemas de Redes S.A., (Costa Rica)
Cisco Systems Malaysia, Sdn. Bhd.
Cisco Systems (USA) Pte. Ltd., Singapore
Cisco Systems Thailand, Ltd.
Cisco Systems Peru, S.A.
Cisco Systems Greece, S.A.
Cisco Systems Poland, Sp.zo.o
Cisco Systems Israel, Ltd.
Cisco Systems Internetworking Iletsim Hizmetlieri Ltd.Sirketi
  (Turkey)
Cisco Systems (India), Ltd. (DE,USA)
Cisco Systems Capital Corp. (USA)
Cisco Systems (Taiwan),Ltd.
Cisco Systems (Colombia), Ltda
Cisco Technology, Inc.
Cisco Systems Sales & Service, Inc.
Cisco Systems Co. (Formerly Skystone Systems Company) (Canada)
Telebit, Corporation (CA,USA)
Cisco Systems Danmark AS
Cisco Systems Norway AS
Cisco Systems Hungary, Ltd.
Cisco Systems Management B.V.
Cisco Systems (Puerto Rico) Corp.
Cisco Systems Finland Oy
Cisco Systems (China) Networking Technologies Ltd.
Cisco Systems Romania SRL
Cisco Systems Croatia Ltd. for Trade
Cisco Systems Slovakia, spol. sr.o

                                       32
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23.02
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUTANTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                   EXHIBIT 23.02


                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in this annual report on
Form 10-K of Cisco Systems, Inc. for the year ended July 31, 1999 of our reports
dated August 10, 1999 included in its Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos.,
333-36197, 333-47191, 333-49141, 333-51089, 333-51487, 333-58533, 333-65867,
333-67789, 333-79941, 333-82945, 333-84663) dated September 23, 1997, March 2,
1998, April 1, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 30, 1998, July 6, 1998, October 19,
1998, November 24, 1998, June 4, 1999, July 15, 1999, August 6, 1999,
respectively and included in its Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. File
Numbers:33-63331, 33-64283, 33-64283[Post Eff.], 333-02101, 333-05447[Post
Eff.], 333-09903, 333-14383, 333-14661, 333-14679, 333-16577, 333-17287,
333-24741, 333-33613, 333-33619, 333-35805, 333-01069[Post Eff.], 33-34849[Post
Eff.], 33-40509[Post Eff.], 33-44221[Post Eff.], 33-71860[Post Eff.],
33-87096[Post Eff.], 333-47159, 333-48949, 333-51093, 333-51315, 333-42249[Post
Eff], 333-64651, 333-65871, 333-68335, 333-69117, 333-74237, 333-79717,
333-79721, 333-81971, 333-83045, 333-83277, 33-70644, 33-83268, 33-87100, dated
October 11, 1995, November 15, 1995, February 20, 1996, April 1, 1996, July 29,
1996, August 9, 1996, October 18, 1996, October 23, 1996, October 23, 1996,
November 21, 1996, December 5, 1996, April 8, 1997, August 14, 1997, August 14,
1997, September 17, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10,
1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, December 10, 1997, March 2, 1998,
April 13, 1998, April 27, 1998, April 29, 1998, September 28, 1998, September
29, 1998, October 19, 1998, December 3, 1998, December 17, 1998, March 11, 1999,
June 1, 1999, June 1, 1999, June 30, 1999, July 16, 1999, July 20, 1999,
respectively, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule for the three years ended July 31, 1999 listed in the
accompanying index.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California
September 24, 1999
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET, CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS AND
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS INCLUDED IN THE COMPANY'S FORM 10-K FOR THE
PERIOD ENDING JULY 31, 1999, AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO
SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000

<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          JUL-31-1999
<PERIOD-START>                             JUL-26-1998
<PERIOD-END>                               JUL-31-1999
<CASH>                                             827
<SECURITIES>                                     9,301
<RECEIVABLES>                                    1,269
<ALLOWANCES>                                        27
<INVENTORY>                                        652
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 4,615
<PP&E>                                           1,824
<DEPRECIATION>                                   1,023
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  14,725
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            3,003
<BONDS>                                              0
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                         5,524
<OTHER-SE>                                       6,154
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    14,725
<SALES>                                         12,154
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                12,154
<CGS>                                            4,240
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    9,170
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                     0
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                   0
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  3,316
<INCOME-TAX>                                     1,220
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              2,096
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     2,096
<EPS-BASIC>                                       0.65<F1>
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     0.62
<FN>
<F1>For purposes of this statement, primary means basic.
</FN>


</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
