-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PdzdDP2MDlHaV/tKQMM4dQYAE99D7cZpxJiEzddc/jL/LBdpF1UhIvy9r7mZAb4P
 ylWyAq7+6k0Ho/XZ0ltQDQ==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0001047469-98-044528.txt : 19981222
<SEC-HEADER>0001047469-98-044528.hdr.sgml : 19981222
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-98-044528
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	8-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		2
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19981215
ITEM INFORMATION:		
ITEM INFORMATION:		
FILED AS OF DATE:		19981221

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ADOBE SYSTEMS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000796343
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				770019522
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			CA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1130

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		8-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-15175
		FILM NUMBER:		98772492

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			SAN JOSE
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			95110-2704
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4159614400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 7900
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94039-7900
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>8-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>8-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                               _________________

                                   FORM 8-K

                                CURRENT REPORT

    Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934


Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 15, 1998



                          ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED
            ------------------------------------------------------
            (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)



Delaware                           0-15175                            77-0019522
- ---------------                ----------------          -----------------------
(State or other                (Commission               (IRS Employer
jurisdiction of                    File Number)              Identification No.)
incorporation)


345 Park Avenue, San Jose, California                            95110-2704
- -------------------------------------                            ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)



Registrant's telephone number, including area code:              (408) 536-6000
                                                                 --------------


                                     None
                                     ---------------------------
         (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)

<PAGE>

Item 5.  Other Events.

     On December 15, 1998, the Company amended its Rights Agreement, dated as 
of July 11, 1990, as amended by the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, 
dated as of April 30, 1996 (the "First Amended and Restated Rights 
Agreement"), and by the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated 
as of July 30, 1997 (the "Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement"), by 
entering into the Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of 
December 15, 1998 (the "Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement"), with 
Harris Trust Company of California.  Capitalized terms used and not otherwise 
defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in the Third Amended and 
Restated Rights Agreement which is attached hereto as an exhibit.

     In general, the Second Amended and Restated Rights Agreement has been 
amended principally as follows:

     1.  The provisions requiring the concurrence of a majority of the 
Continuing Directors then in office to give effect to any action, 
calculation, interpretation or determination made by the Board of Directors 
of the Company in the administration of the Second Amended and Restated 
Rights Agreement and the exercise of rights or powers granted to the Board of 
Directors of the Company thereunder and providing that no effect shall be 
given to any such action, calculation, interpretation or determination or 
exercise of rights of powers unless at least two Continuing Directors who are 
then in office are eliminated under the Third Amended and Restated Rights 
Agreement.

     A copy of the Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement is attached 
hereto as Exhibit 1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing 
description of the changes to the Second Amended and Restated Rights 
Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by 
reference to the Third Amended Restated Rights Agreement.

Item 7.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.

         (a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired.

              Not applicable.

         (b)  Pro forma financial information.

              Not applicable.

         (c)  Exhibits

              1.  Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated as of 
                  December 15, 1998, between the Company and Harris Trust 
                  Company of California.

<PAGE>

                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the 
registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the 
undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

                                   Adobe Systems Incorporated
                                          (Registrant)


                                   By: /s/ Colleen M. Pouliot
                                       ----------------------
                                       Colleen M. Pouliot
                                       Senior Vice President, General
                                       Counsel and Secretary

                                   Dated: December 15, 1998

<PAGE>

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Exhibit No.                  Description
- -----------                  -----------
<S>                          <C>

     1                       Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, dated
                             as of December 15, 1998, between the Company and
                             Harris Trust Company of California.

</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-1
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>3RD AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGMT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                     THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED RIGHTS AGREEMENT

          This agreement (this "AGREEMENT" or the "RIGHTS AGREEMENT"), dated 
as of July 11, 1990, and amended and restated as of April 10, 1996 and as of 
August 14, 1997, and further amended and restated as of December 15, 1998, 
between Adobe Systems Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"), 
and Harris Trust Company of California (the "RIGHTS AGENT").

                                 W I T N E S S E T H

          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company on July 11, 1990 (i) 
announced that it authorized the issuance and declared a dividend of one 
right ("RIGHT") (as such number may be adjusted pursuant hereto) for each 
share of the common stock of the Company ("COMMON STOCK") outstanding as of 
the Close of Business (as defined herein) on July 24, 1990 (the "RECORD 
DATE"), each Right initially representing the right to purchase one share of 
Common Stock of the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions 
hereinafter set forth, and (ii) further authorized the issuance of one Right 
(as such number may be adjusted pursuant hereto) with respect to each share 
of Common Stock of the Company that shall become outstanding between July 24, 
1990 and, except as provided in Section 22, the Distribution Date (as defined 
herein); and

          WHEREAS, pursuant to authorization of the Board of Directors at a 
meeting properly noticed and convened on April 10, 1996, this Agreement has 
been amended and restated, at a meeting properly noticed and convened on July 
30, 1997, this Agreement has been further amended and restated, and at a 
meeting properly noticed and convened on October 20, 1998, this Agreement has 
been further amended and restated, each as of the respective date set forth 
above, in accordance with the provisions of Section 27 hereof to provide, 
among other things, that each Right outstanding as of and to be issued after 
the date of this Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement shall be 
exercisable into one Unit (as defined herein) of Preferred Stock (as defined 
herein).

          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual 
agreements herein set forth, the parties hereby agree as follows:

          SECTION 1.  CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.  For purposes of this Agreement 
the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

          (a)  "ACQUIRING PERSON" shall mean any Person (as defined herein) 
who or which, alone or together with all Affiliates (as defined herein) and 
Associates (as defined herein) of such Person, without the prior approval of 
the Board of Directors, shall be the Beneficial Owner (as defined herein) of 
15% or more of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company but shall not 
include (x) an Exempt Person (as defined herein) or (y) any such Person who 
has 


                                      
<PAGE>

                                      2

become and is such a Beneficial Owner solely because (A) of a change in the 
aggregate number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding since the last 
date on which such Person acquired Beneficial Ownership (as defined herein) 
of any shares of the Common Stock (as defined herein) or (B) it acquired such 
Beneficial Ownership in the good faith belief that such acquisition would not 
(1) cause such Beneficial Ownership to equal or exceed 15% of the shares of 
the Common Stock then outstanding and such Person relied in good faith in 
computing the percentage of its Beneficial Ownership on publicly filed 
reports or documents of the Company which are inaccurate or out-of-date or 
(2) otherwise cause a Distribution Date or the adjustment provided for in 
Section 11(a)(ii) to occur.  Notwithstanding clause (B) of the prior 
sentence, if any Person that is not an Acquiring Person due to such clause 
(B) does not reduce its percentage of Beneficial Ownership of the Common 
Stock to less than 15% by the Close of Business (as defined herein) on the 
fifth Business Day (as defined herein) after notice from the Company (the 
date of notice being the first day) that such person's Beneficial Ownership 
of the Common Stock so equals or exceeds 15%, such Person shall at the end of 
such five Business Day period become an Acquiring Person (and such clause (B) 
shall no longer apply to such Person).  For purposes of this definition, the 
determination whether any Person acted in "good faith" shall be conclusively 
determined by the Board of Directors of the Company.

          (b)  "ADJUSTMENT SHARES" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 11(a)(ii)(C) hereof.

          (c)  "AFFILIATE" and "ASSOCIATE" shall have the respective meanings 
ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations 
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended ("EXCHANGE ACT"), as 
currently in effect.

          (d)  A Person shall be deemed the "BENEFICIAL OWNER" of, and shall 
be deemed to "BENEFICIALLY OWN", and shall be deemed to have "BENEFICIAL 
OWNERSHIP" of, any securities:

               (i)   which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
     Associates beneficially owns, directly or indirectly;

               (ii)  which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or
     Associates has (A) the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable
     immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement,
     arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights,
     exchange rights, rights (other than the Rights), warrants or options, or
     otherwise; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that a Person shall not be deemed the
     "BENEFICIAL OWNER" of, or to "BENEFICIALLY OWN", or to have "BENEFICIAL
     OWNERSHIP" of, securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer
     made by such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates or Associates until
     such tendered securities are accepted for purchase or exchange; or (B) the
     right to vote pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding
     (whether or not in writing); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that a Person shall not be


                                      
<PAGE>

                                     3

     deemed the "BENEFICIAL OWNER" of, or to "BENEFICIALLY OWN", or to have
     "BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP" of, any securities if the agreement, arrangement or
     understanding to vote such security (1) arises solely from a revocable
     proxy or consent given in response to a public proxy or consent
     solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules
     and regulations of the Exchange Act and (2) is not also then reportable by
     such Person on Schedule 13D or 13G under the Exchange Act (or any
     comparable or successor report); or

               (iii) which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
     any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person's Affiliates
     or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or
     not in writing) for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except as
     described in clause (B) of subparagraph (ii) of this Section 1(d)) or
     disposing of any securities of the Company.

          (e)  "BUSINESS DAY" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, 
Sunday, or a day on which banking institutions in the State of California are 
authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.

          (f)  "CLOSE OF BUSINESS" on any given date shall mean 5:00 P.M., 
California time, on such date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if such date is not a 
Business Day it shall mean 5:00 P.M., California time, on the next succeeding 
Business Day.

          (g)  "COMMON STOCK" when used with reference to the Company shall 
mean the common stock of the Company.  "COMMON STOCK" when used with 
reference to any Person other than the Company which shall be organized in 
corporate form shall mean the capital stock or other equity security with the 
greatest per share voting power of such Person or, if such Person is a 
Subsidiary (as defined herein) of, or is controlled by another Person, the 
Person which ultimately controls such first-mentioned Person.  "COMMON STOCK" 
when used with reference to any Person other than the Company which shall not 
be organized in corporate form shall mean units of beneficial interest which 
shall represent the right to participate in profits, losses, deductions and 
credits of such Person and which shall be entitled to exercise the greatest 
voting power per unit of such Person.

          (h)  "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 11(d) hereof.

          (i)  "CURRENT VALUE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
11(a)(iii) hereof.

          (j)  "DEPOSITARY AGENT" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
7(c) hereof.


                                      
<PAGE>

                                     4

          (k)  "DISTRIBUTION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 3(a) hereof.

          (l)  "EQUIVALENT PREFERRED STOCK" shall have the meaning set forth 
in Section 11(b) hereof.

          (m)  "EXCHANGE ACT" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
1(c) hereof.

          (n)  "EXEMPT PERSON" shall mean the Company, any Subsidiary of the 
Company, any employee benefit plan or employee stock plan of the Company or 
of any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Person, organized, appointed, 
established or holding Common Stock for, or pursuant to, the terms of any 
such plan.

          (o)  "FINAL EXPIRATION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 7(a) hereof.

          (p)  "FLIP-IN EVENT" shall mean any event described in Section 
11(a)(ii)(A), (B) or (C) hereof.

          (q)  "FLIP-IN EXERCISE PAYMENT" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 11(a)(ii).

          (r)  "FLIP-IN TRIGGER DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

          (s)  "FLIP-OVER EVENT" shall mean any event described in clause 
(x), (y) or (z) of Section 13(a) hereof.

          (t)  "FLIP-OVER EXERCISE PAYMENT" shall have the meaning set forth 
in Section 13(a) hereof.

          (u)  "NASDAQ" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9(b) 
hereof.

          (v)  "PERSON" shall mean any individual, firm, corporation, 
partnership or other entity.

          (w)  "PREFERRED STOCK" shall mean the Series A Preferred Stock, par 
value $.0001 per share, of the Company having the voting powers, designation, 
preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights and 
qualifications, limitations and restrictions described in the Certificate of 
Designation set forth as EXHIBIT C hereto.


                                      
<PAGE>

                                     5

          (x)  "PREFERRED STOCK EQUIVALENTS" shall have the meaning set forth 
in Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

          (y)  "PRINCIPAL PARTY" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
13(b) hereof.

          (z)  "PURCHASE PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
4(a) hereof.

          (aa) "RECORD DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals 
to this Agreement.

          (bb) "REDEMPTION DATE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
7(a) hereof.

          (cc) "REDEMPTION PRICE" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
23(a) hereof.

          (dd) "RIGHT CERTIFICATE" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 3(a) hereof.

          (ee) "SECURITIES ACT" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as 
amended.

          (ff) "STOCK ACQUISITION DATE" shall mean the first date of public 
announcement (including, without limitation, the filing of any report 
pursuant to Section 13(d) or 13(g) of the Exchange Act) by the Company or an 
Acquiring Person that an Acquiring Person has become such or such earlier 
date as a majority of the directors shall become aware of the existence of an 
Acquiring Person.

          (gg) "SUBSTITUTION PERIOD" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 11(a)(iii) hereof.

          (hh) "SUBSIDIARY" of a Person shall mean any corporation or other 
entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary 
voting power sufficient to elect a majority of the board of directors or 
other persons performing similar functions, are beneficially owned, directly 
or indirectly, by such Person and any corporation or other entity that is 
otherwise controlled by such Person.

          (ii) "SUMMARY OF RIGHTS" shall have the meaning set forth in 
Section 3(b) hereof.

          (jj) "TRADING DAY" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 
11(d) hereof.

          (kk) "TRIGGERING EVENT" shall mean any event described in Section 
11(a)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) or Section 13 hereof.


                                      
<PAGE>

                                     6

          (ll) "UNIT" has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b).

          (mm) "VOTING POWER" shall mean the voting power of all securities 
of the Company then outstanding and generally entitled to vote for the 
election of directors of the Company.

          Any determination required by any definition contained in this 
Section 1 shall be made by the Board of Directors of the Company in its good 
faith judgment, which determination shall be binding on the Rights Agent and 
the holders of the Rights.

          SECTION 2.  APPOINTMENT OF RIGHTS AGENT.  The Company hereby 
appoints the Rights Agent to act as agent for the Company in accordance with 
the terms and conditions hereof, and the Rights Agent hereby accepts such 
appointment. With the consent of the Rights Agent, the Company may from time 
to time appoint such Co-Rights Agents as it may deem necessary or desirable.


<PAGE>

                                     7

          SECTION 3.  ISSUANCE OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES.

          (a)  Until the earlier of (i) the Close of Business on the tenth 
day after the Stock Acquisition Date and (ii) the Close of Business on the 
tenth Business Day (or such later date as may be determined by action of the 
Company's Board of Directors prior to such time as any Person becomes an 
Acquiring Person) after the date that a tender or exchange offer by any 
Person (other than an Exempt Person) is first published or sent or given 
within the meaning of Rule 14d-4(a) of the Exchange Act Regulations or any 
successor rule, if upon consummation thereof such Person would be the 
Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the shares of the outstanding Common Stock 
(irrespective of whether any shares are actually purchased pursuant to any 
such offer) (the earlier of (i) and (ii) above being the "DISTRIBUTION 
DATE"), (x) the Rights will be evidenced (subject to the provisions of 
Section 3(c) hereof) by the certificates for Common Stock registered in the 
names of the holders of the Common Stock as of and subsequent to the Record 
Date (which certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be deemed also to 
be certificates for Rights) and not by separate Right certificates, and (y) 
each Right will be transferable only in connection with the transfer of a 
share (subject to adjustments as hereinafter provided) of Common Stock 
(including a transfer to the Company).  As soon as practicable after the 
Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will mail, by first-class, postage 
prepaid mail, at the expense of the Company, to each record holder of the 
Common Stock as of the Close of Business on the Distribution Date, as shown 
by the records of the Company, to the address of such holder shown on such 
records, one or more Right certificates, in substantially the form of EXHIBIT 
A hereto (each, a "RIGHT CERTIFICATE"), evidencing one Right for each share 
of Common Stock so held, subject to adjustment as provided herein.  In the 
event that an adjustment in the number of Rights per share of Common Stock of 
the Company has been made pursuant to Section 11(p), at the time of 
distribution of the Rights Certificates, the Company may make the necessary 
and appropriate rounding adjustments (in accordance with Section 14(a)) so 
that Rights Certificates representing only whole numbers of Rights are 
distributed and cash is paid in lieu of any fractional Rights.  As of and 
after the Distribution Date, the Rights will be evidenced solely by such 
Right Certificates.

          (b)  On July 24, 1990 or as soon as practicable thereafter, the 
Company sent a copy of a Summary of Terms of Rights Agreement, substantially 
in the form attached hereto as EXHIBIT B ("SUMMARY OF RIGHTS") (Exhibit B 
having been amended, however, to summarize the terms of the Rights as amended 
as of April 10, 1996 and further amended as of August 14, 1997, and as of 
December 15, 1998), by first-class, postage prepaid mail, to each record 
holder of Common Stock as of the Close of Business on July 24, 1990, at the 
address of such holder shown on the records of the Company.

          (c)  With respect to certificates for Common Stock outstanding as 
of July 24, 1990, until the Distribution Date (or, if earlier, the Redemption 
Date or the Final Expiration Date), the Rights will be evidenced by such 
certificates for Common Stock registered in the 


<PAGE>

                                      8

names of the holders thereof. Until the Distribution Date (or, if earlier, 
the Redemption Date or Final Expiration Date), the surrender for transfer of 
any certificate for Common Stock outstanding on July 24, 1990, with or 
without a copy of the Summary of Rights attached thereto, shall also 
constitute the surrender for transfer of the Rights associated with the 
Common Stock represented thereby.

          (d)  Certificates issued for Common Stock (including, without 
limitation, certificates issued upon transfer or exchange of Common Stock) 
after July 24, 1990, but prior to the earlier of the Distribution Date, the 
Redemption Date or the Final Expiration Date, shall have impressed on, 
printed on, written on, or otherwise affixed to them, the following legend:

     This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain
     Rights as set forth in a Rights Agreement between Adobe Systems
     Incorporated and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, as Rights Agent,
     dated as of July 11, 1990 (the "RIGHTS AGREEMENT"), the terms of which are
     incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is on file at the
     principal executive office of Adobe Systems Incorporated.  Under certain
     circumstances, as set forth in the Rights Agreement, such Rights will be
     evidenced by separate certificates and will no longer be evidenced by this
     certificate.  Adobe Systems Incorporated will mail to the holder of this
     certificate a copy of the Rights Agreement without charge within five (5)
     days after receipt by it of a written request therefor.  Under certain
     circumstances as provided in the Rights Agreement, Rights issued to or
     beneficially owned by Acquiring Persons or their Associates or Affiliates
     (as defined in the Rights Agreement) or any subsequent holder of such
     Rights may be limited as provided in Section 11(a)(ii) and Section 24 of
     the Rights Agreement.

PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that with respect to certificates issued for Common Stock 
(including, without limitation, certificates issued upon transfer or exchange 
of Common Stock) after December 15, 1998, but prior to the earlier of the 
Distribution Date, the Redemption Date or the Final Expiration Date, the 
first sentence of such legend shall be replaced with the following:

     This certificate also evidences and entitles the holder hereof to certain
     Rights as set forth in the Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement
     between Adobe Systems Incorporated and Harris Trust Company of California,
     as Rights Agent, dated as of December 15, 1998 (the "RIGHTS AGREEMENT"),
     the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which
     is on file at the principal executive office of Adobe Systems Incorporated.

and the last sentence of such legend shall be replaced with the following:

     Under certain circumstances as provided in the Rights Agreement, Rights
     issued to or beneficially owned by Acquiring Persons or their Associates or
     Affiliates (as defined in 


<PAGE>

                                      9

     the Rights Agreement) or any subsequent holder of such Rights may become 
     null and void in the circumstances specified in Section 7(f) of the 
     Rights Agreement and may be limited as provided in Section 11(a)(ii) and 
     Section 24 of the Rights Agreement.

With respect to such certificates containing the foregoing legend, the 
Rights associated with the Common Stock represented by such certificates 
shall, until the Distribution Date, be evidenced by such certificates 
alone, and the surrender for transfer of any such certificate shall also 
constitute the surrender for transfer of the Rights associated with the 
Common Stock represented thereby.

     SECTION 4.  FORM OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES.

          (a)  The Right Certificates (and the forms of election to 
purchase and of assignment to be printed on the reverse thereof), when, 
as and if issued, shall be substantially in the form set forth in EXHIBIT 
A hereto and may have such marks of identification or designation and 
such legends, summaries or endorsements printed thereon as the Company 
may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of 
this Rights Agreement, or as may be required to comply with any law or 
with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto, or with any rule or 
regulation of any stock exchange on which the Rights may from time to 
time be listed, or to conform to usage.  Subject to the provisions of 
Sections 11 and 22 hereof, the Right Certificates evidencing the Rights 
issued on July 24, 1990, whenever such certificates are issued, shall be 
dated as of July 24, 1990, and the Right Certificates evidencing Rights 
to holders of record of Common Stock issued after July 24, 1990 shall be 
dated as of July 24, 1990, but shall also be dated to reflect the date of 
issuance of such Right Certificate.  On their face, Right Certificates 
shall entitle the holders thereof to purchase for each Right, one Unit of 
Preferred Stock, or other securities or property as provided herein, as 
the same may from time to time be adjusted after the date hereof as 
provided herein, at the price per Unit of $115.00, as the same may from 
time to time be adjusted as provided herein (the "PURCHASE PRICE").

          (b)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Rights 
Agreement, any Right Certificate that represents Rights that are or were 
at any time on or after the earlier of the Stock Acquisition Date or the 
Distribution Date beneficially owned by:  (i) an Acquiring Person or any 
Affiliate or Associate thereof, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person 
(or of any such Associate or Affiliate) which becomes a transferee after 
the Acquiring Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring 
Person (or of any such Associate or Affiliate) which becomes a transferee 
prior to or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and 
which receives such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or 
not for consideration) from the Acquiring Person (or any such Associate 
or Affiliate) to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person (or 
such Associate or Affiliate) or to any Person with whom such Acquiring 
Person (or such Associate or Affiliate) has any continuing agreement, 
arrangement or understanding regarding either the transferred Rights, 
shares of Common Stock or the Company 


<PAGE>

                                      10

or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors of the Company has 
determined to be part of a plan, arrangement or understanding which has 
as a primary purpose or effect the avoidance of Section 7(f), shall have 
(to the extent feasible) impressed on, printed on, written on or 
otherwise affixed to it (if the Company or the Rights Agent has knowledge 
that such Person is an Acquiring Person or an Associate or Affiliate 
thereof or transferee of such Persons or a nominee of any of the 
foregoing) the following legend:

     The beneficial owner of the Rights represented by this Right Certificate is
     an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate (as defined in the Rights
     Agreement) of an Acquiring Person or a subsequent holder of such Right
     Certificates beneficially owned by such Persons.  Accordingly, this Right
     Certificate and the Rights represented hereby may become null and void in
     the circumstances specified in Section 7(f) of the Rights Agreement and may
     be limited as provided in Section 11(a)(ii) and Section 24 of the Rights
     Agreement.

          SECTION 5.  COUNTERSIGNATURE AND REGISTRATION.

          (a)  The Right Certificates shall be executed on behalf of the 
Company by its President or any Vice President, either manually or by 
facsimile signature, and have affixed thereto the Company's seal or a 
facsimile thereof which shall be attested by the Secretary or an 
Assistant Secretary of the Company, either manually or by facsimile 
signature.  The Right Certificates shall be manually countersigned by the 
Rights Agent and shall not be valid for any purpose unless so 
countersigned.  In case any officer of the Company who shall have signed 
any of the Right Certificates shall cease to be such officer of the 
Company before countersignature by the Rights Agent and issuance and 
delivery by the Company, such Right Certificates, nevertheless, may be 
countersigned by the Rights Agent, issued and delivered with the same 
force and effect as though the person who signed such Right Certificates 
had not ceased to be such officer of the Company; and any Right 
Certificate may be signed on behalf of the Company by any person who, at 
the actual date of the execution of such Right Certificate, shall be a 
proper officer of the Company to sign such Right Certificate, although at 
the date of the execution of this Rights Agreement any such person was 
not such an officer.

          (b)  Following the Distribution Date, the Rights Agent will 
keep or cause to be kept, at one of its offices designated for such 
purposes, books for registration and transfer of the Right Certificates 
issued hereunder.  Such books shall show the names and addresses of the 
respective holders of the Right Certificates, the number of Rights 
evidenced on its face by each of the Right Certificates, the date of each 
of the Right Certificates and the certificate numbers for each of the 
Right Certificates.


<PAGE>

                                      11

          SECTION 6.  TRANSFER, SPLIT UP, COMBINATION AND EXCHANGE OF RIGHT 
CERTIFICATES; MUTILATED, DESTROYED, LOST OR STOLEN RIGHT CERTIFICATES.

          (a)  Subject to the provisions of Sections 4(b), 7(f) and 14(b) 
hereof, at any time after the Close of Business on the Distribution Date and 
at or prior to the Close of Business on the earlier of the Redemption Date or 
the Final Expiration Date, any Right Certificate or Certificates may be (i) 
transferred or (ii) split up, combined or exchanged for another Right 
Certificate or Right Certificates, entitling the registered holder to 
purchase a like number of Units of Preferred Stock as the Right Certificate 
or Right Certificates surrendered then entitled such holder to purchase.  Any 
registered holder desiring to transfer any Right Certificate shall surrender 
the Right Certificate at the office of the Rights Agent designated for such 
purposes with the form of assignment on the reverse side thereof duly 
endorsed (or enclose with such Right Certificate a written instrument of 
transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Rights Agent), duly 
executed by the registered holder thereof or his attorney, duly authorized in 
writing, and with such signature duly guaranteed.  Any registered holder 
desiring to split up, combine or exchange any Right Certificate shall make 
such request in writing delivered to the Rights Agent, and shall surrender 
the Right Certificate or Right Certificates to be split up, combined or 
exchanged at the principal office of the Rights Agent.  Thereupon the Rights 
Agent shall countersign (by manual signature) and deliver to the person 
entitled thereto a Right Certificate or Right Certificates, as the case may 
be, as so requested.  The Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to 
cover any tax or governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with 
any transfer, split up, combination or exchange of Right Certificates.

          (b)  Upon receipt by the Company and the Rights Agent of evidence 
reasonably satisfactory to them of the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation 
of a Right Certificate, and, in case of loss, theft or destruction, of 
indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to them, and, if requested by 
the Company, reimbursement to the Company and the Rights Agent of all 
reasonable expenses incidental thereto, and upon surrender to the Rights 
Agent and cancellation of the Right Certificate if mutilated, the Company 
will execute and deliver a new Right Certificate of like tenor and 
representing the equivalent number of Rights to the Rights Agent for delivery 
to the registered owner in lieu of the Right Certificate so lost, stolen, 
destroyed or mutilated.

          SECTION 7.  EXERCISE OF RIGHTS PURCHASE PRICE; EXPIRATION DATE OF 
RIGHTS.

          (a)  The Rights shall become exercisable, and may be exercised to 
purchase Units of Preferred Stock, except as otherwise provided herein, in 
whole or in part at any time after the Distribution Date upon surrender of 
the Right Certificate, with the form of election to purchase on the reverse 
side thereof duly executed (with such signature duly guaranteed), to the 


<PAGE>

                                      12

Rights Agent at 311 West Monroe Street, 14th Floor, Chicago, Illinois 60606, 
Attention: Corporate Trust Department, together with payment of the Purchase 
Price with respect to each Right exercised, subject to adjustment as 
hereinafter provided, at or prior to the Close of Business on the earlier of 
(i) July 23, 2000 (the "FINAL EXPIRATION DATE"), (ii) the time at which the 
Rights are redeemed as provided in Section 23 hereof (such date being herein 
referred to as the "REDEMPTION DATE") or (iii) the time at which all such 
Rights are exchanged as provided in Section 24 hereof.

          (b)  The Purchase Price and the number of Units of Preferred Stock 
or other securities or consideration to be acquired upon exercise of a Right 
shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Sections 11 
and 13 hereof.  The Purchase Price shall be payable in lawful money of the 
United States of America, in accordance with Section 7(c) hereof.

          (c)  As promptly as practicable following the occurrence of the 
Distribution Date, the Company shall deposit with a corporation in good 
standing organized under the laws of the United States or any State of the 
United States, which is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate 
trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to supervision or examination 
by federal or state authority (such institution being the "DEPOSITARY 
AGENT"), certificates representing the shares of Preferred Stock that may be 
acquired upon exercise of the Rights, and shall cause such Depositary Agent 
to enter into an agreement pursuant to which the Depositary Agent shall issue 
receipts representing interests in the shares of Preferred Stock so 
deposited.  Upon receipt of a Right Certificate representing exercisable 
Rights, with the form of election to purchase and the certificate duly 
executed, accompanied by payment, with respect to each Right so exercised, of 
the Purchase Price for the Units of Preferred Stock (or, following a 
Triggering Event, other securities, cash or other assets, as the case may be) 
to be purchased thereby as set forth below and an amount equal to any 
applicable transfer tax or evidence satisfactory to the Company of payment of 
such tax, the Rights Agent shall, subject to Section 20(k), thereupon 
promptly (i) requisition from the Depositary Agent depositary receipts 
representing such number of Units of Preferred Stock as are to be purchased 
and the Company will direct, and hereby authorizes and directs, the 
Depositary Agent to comply with such request, (ii) requisition from the 
Company the amount of cash, if any, to be paid in lieu of fractional shares 
in accordance with Section 14, (iii) after receipt of such depositary 
receipts, promptly cause the same to be delivered to or upon the order of the 
registered holder of such Right Certificate, registered in such name or names 
as may be designated by such holder, and (iv) after receipt thereof, promptly 
deliver such cash, if any, to or upon the order of the registered holder of 
such Right Certificate; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the case of a purchase of 
securities pursuant to Section 13 hereof, the Rights Agent shall promptly 
take the appropriate actions corresponding to the foregoing clauses (i) 
through (iv).  In the event that the Company is obligated to issue Common 
Stock or other securities of the Company, pay cash and/or distribute other 
property pursuant to Section 11(a), the Company will make all arrangements 
necessary so that such Common Stock, other securities, cash and/or other 
property are available for distribution by the Rights Agent, if and when 
appropriate.  The 


<PAGE>

                                      13

payment of the Purchase Price (as such amount may be reduced pursuant to 
Section 11(a)(iii)) may be made in cash or by certified or bank check payable 
to the order of the Company, or by wire transfer of immediately available 
funds to the account of the Company (provided that notice of such wire 
transfer shall be given by the holder of the related Right to the Rights 
Agent).

          (d)  In case the registered holder of any Right Certificate shall 
exercise less than all the Rights evidenced thereby, a new Right Certificate 
evidencing Rights equivalent to the Rights remaining unexercised shall be 
issued by the Rights Agent to the registered holder of such Right Certificate 
or to his duly authorized assigns, subject to the provisions of Section 14 
hereof.

          (e)  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, 
neither the Rights Agent nor the Company shall be obligated to undertake any 
action with respect to a registered holder upon the occurrence of any 
purported exercise as set forth in this Section 7 unless such registered 
holder shall have (i) completed and signed the certificate contained in the 
form of election to purchase set forth on the reverse side of the Right 
Certificate surrendered for such exercise and (ii) provided such additional 
evidence of the identity of the Beneficial Owner (or former Beneficial Owner) 
or Affiliates or Associates thereof as the Company shall reasonably request.

          (f)  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, 
from and after the first occurrence of any Flip-In Event or Flip-Over Event, 
any Rights beneficially owned by (i) an Acquiring Person or an Associate or 
Affiliate of an Acquiring Person, (ii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person 
(or of any such Associate or Affiliate) which becomes a transferee after the 
Acquiring Person becomes such, or (iii) a transferee of an Acquiring Person 
(or of any such Associate or Affiliate) which becomes a transferee prior to 
or concurrently with the Acquiring Person becoming such and which receives 
such Rights pursuant to either (A) a transfer (whether or not for 
consideration) from the Acquiring Person (or any such Associate or Affiliate) 
to holders of equity interests in such Acquiring Person (or such Associate or 
Affiliate) or to any Person with whom such Acquiring Person (or such 
Associate or Affiliate) has any continuing agreement, arrangement or 
understanding regarding the transferred Rights, shares of Common Stock or the 
Company or (B) a transfer which the Board of Directors of the Company has 
determined to be part of a plan, arrangement or understanding which has as a 
primary purpose or effect the avoidance of this Section 7(f), shall be null 
and void without any further action, and no holder of such Rights shall have 
any rights whatsoever with respect to such Rights, whether under any 
provision of this Agreement or otherwise.  The Company shall use all 
reasonable efforts to ensure that the provisions of this Section 7(f) and 
Section 4(b) are complied with, but shall have no liability to any holder of 
Rights or any other Person as a result of its failure to make any 
determination under this Section 7(f) or Section 4(b) with respect to an 
Acquiring Person or its Affiliates, Associates or transferees.


<PAGE>
 
                                      14

          SECTION 8.  CANCELLATION AND DESTRUCTION OF RIGHT CERTIFICATES.  
All Right Certificates surrendered for the purpose of exercise, transfer, 
splitup, combination or exchange shall, if surrendered to the Company or to 
any of its agents, be delivered to the Rights Agent for cancellation or in 
cancelled form, or, if surrendered to the Rights Agent, shall be cancelled by 
it, and no Right Certificates shall be issued in lieu thereof except as 
expressly permitted by any of the Provisions of this Rights Agreement.  The 
Company shall deliver to the Rights Agent for cancellation and retirement, 
and the Right Agent shall so cancel and retire, any Right Certificate 
purchased or acquired by the Company otherwise than upon the exercise 
thereof.  The Rights Agent shall deliver all cancelled Right Certificates to 
the Company, or shall, at the written request of the Company, destroy such 
cancelled Right Certificates, and in such case shall deliver a certificate of 
destruction thereof to the Company.

          SECTION 9.  RESERVATION AND AVAILABILITY OF SHARES OF PREFERRED 
STOCK.

          (a)  The Company covenants and agrees that at all times it will 
cause to be reserved and kept available, out of, and to the extent of, its 
authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock not reserved for another 
purpose (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, other 
securities) or held in its treasury, the number of shares of Preferred Stock 
(and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, other securities) that, 
as provided in this Agreement, including Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, will be 
sufficient to permit the exercise in full of all outstanding Rights; 
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall not be required to reserve and keep 
available shares of Preferred Stock or other securities sufficient to permit 
the exercise in full of all outstanding Rights pursuant to the adjustments 
set forth Section 11(a)(ii), Section 11(a)(iii) or Section 13 hereof unless, 
and only to the extent that, the Rights become exercisable pursuant to such 
adjustments.

          (b)  The Company shall (i) use its best efforts to cause, from and 
after such time as the Rights become exercisable, the Rights and all shares 
of Preferred Stock (and following the occurrence by a Triggering Event, other 
securities) issued or reserved for issuance upon exercise thereof to be 
reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market Consolidated Quotations Service 
("NASDAQ") or such other system then in use, and if the Preferred Stock shall 
become listed on any national securities exchange, to cause, from and after 
such time as the Rights become exercisable, the Rights and all shares of 
Preferred Stock (and, following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, other 
securities) issued or reserved for issuance upon exercise thereof to be 
listed on such exchange upon official notice of issuance upon such exercise 
and (ii) if then necessary, to permit the offer and issuance of such shares 
of Preferred Stock (and, following occurrence of a Triggering Event, other 
securities), register and qualify such shares of Preferred Stock (and, 
following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, other securities) under the 
Securities Act and any applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws (to the 
extent exemptions therefrom are not available), cause such registration, 
statement and qualifications to become effective as soon 


<PAGE>

                                      15

as possible after such filing and keep such registration and qualifications 
effective until the earlier of the Redemption Date or the Final Expiration 
Date of the Rights.  The Company may temporarily suspend, for a period of 
time not to exceed ninety (90) days, the exercisability of the Rights in 
order to prepare and file a registration statement under the Securities Act 
and permit it to become effective.  Upon any such suspension, the Company 
shall issue a public announcement stating that the exercisability of the 
Rights has been temporarily suspended, as well as a public announcement at 
such time as the suspension is no longer in effect.  Notwithstanding any 
provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be 
exercisable in any jurisdiction unless the requisite qualification in such 
jurisdiction shall have been obtained and until a registration statement 
under the Securities Act (if required) shall have been declared effective.

          (c)  The Company covenants and agrees that it will take all such 
action as may be necessary to ensure that all shares of Preferred Stock (and, 
following the occurrence of a Triggering Event, other securities) delivered 
upon exercise of Rights shall, at the time of delivery of the certificates 
for such shares (subject to payment of the Purchase Price in respect 
thereof), be duly and validly authorized and issued and fully paid and 
nonassessable shares in accordance with applicable law.

          (d)  The Company further covenants and agrees that it will pay when 
due and payable any and all federal and state transfer taxes which may be 
payable in respect of the issuance or delivery of the Right Certificates or 
of any Units of Preferred Stock (or other securities, as the case may be) 
upon the exercise of Rights.  The Company shall not, however, be required to 
pay any transfer tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer or 
delivery of Right Certificates to a Person other than, or the issuance or 
delivery of certificates or depository receipts for Units of Preferred Stock 
(or other securities, as the case may be) upon exercise of Rights in a name 
other than that of, the registered holder of the Right Certificate, and the 
Company shall not be required to issue or deliver a Right Certificate or 
certificate or depository receipt for Units of Preferred Stock (or other 
securities, as the case may be) to a person other than such registered holder 
until any such tax shall have been paid (any such tax being payable by the 
holder of such Right Certificate at the time of surrender) or until it has 
been established to the Company's satisfaction that no such tax is due.

          SECTION 10.  PREFERRED STOCK RECORD DATE.  Each Person in whose 
name any certificate for Units of Preferred Stock (or other securities, as 
the case may be) is issued upon the exercise of Rights shall for all purposes 
be deemed to have become the holder of record of the Units of Preferred Stock 
(or other securities, as the case may be) represented thereby on, and such 
certificate shall be dated, the date upon which the Right Certificate 
evidencing such Rights was duly surrendered and payment of the Purchase Price 
(and any applicable transfer taxes) was made.


<PAGE>

                                      16

          SECTION 11.  ADJUSTMENTS TO NUMBER AND KIND OF SECURITIES, NUMBER 
OF RIGHTS OR PURCHASE PRICE.  The number and kind of securities subject to 
purchase upon the exercise of each Right, the number of Rights outstanding 
and the Purchase Price are subject to adjustment from time to time as 
provided in this Section 11.

          (a)  (i)  In the event the Company shall at any time after the date of
     this Rights Agreement (A) declare or pay any dividend on Preferred Stock
     payable in shares of Preferred Stock, (B) subdivide or split the
     outstanding shares of Preferred Stock into a greater number of shares, (C)
     combine or consolidate the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock into a
     smaller number of shares or effect a reverse split of the outstanding
     shares of Preferred Stock, or (D) issue any shares of its capital stock in
     a reclassification of the Preferred Stock (including any such
     reclassification in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the
     Company is the continuing or surviving corporation), except as otherwise
     provided in this Section 11(a), the Purchase Price in effect at the time of
     the record date for such dividend or of the effective date of such
     subdivision, combination or reclassification, and the number and kind of
     shares of Preferred Stock or capital stock, as the case may be, issuable on
     such date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the holder of any
     Right exercised after such time shall be entitled to receive, upon payment
     of the Purchase Price then in effect, the aggregate number and kind of
     shares of Preferred Stock or capital stock, as the case may be, which, if
     such Right had been exercised immediately prior to such date, the holder
     thereof would have owned upon such exercise and been entitled to receive by
     virtue of such dividend, subdivision, combination or reclassification.  If
     an event occurs which would require an adjustment under both this Section
     11(a)(i) and Section 11(i)(ii) hereof, the adjustment provided for in this
     Section 11(a)(i) shall be in addition to, and shall be made prior to any
     adjustment required pursuant to, Section 11(a)(ii).

               (ii)  Subject to Section 24, in the event


<PAGE>

                                      17

                     (A) any Acquiring Person or any Associate or Affiliate
          of any Acquiring Person, at any time after the date of this Agreement,
          directly or indirectly, (1) shall consolidate with or merge with and
          into the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or otherwise combine with
          the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and the Company or such
          Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving corporation of such
          consolidation, merger or combination and the Common Stock of the
          Company shall remain outstanding and no shares thereof shall be
          changed into or exchanged for stock or other securities of the Company
          or any other property, or (2) shall, in one or more transactions,
          other than in connection with the exercise of a Right or Rights and
          other than in connection with the exercise or conversion of securities
          exercisable for or convertible into securities of the Company or of
          any Subsidiary of the Company, transfer any assets or property to the
          Company or any of its Subsidiaries in exchange (in whole or in part)
          for any shares of any class of capital stock of the Company or any of
          its Subsidiaries or any securities exercisable for or convertible into
          shares of any class of capital stock of the Company or any of its
          Subsidiaries, or otherwise obtain from the Company or any of its
          Subsidiaries, with or without consideration, any additional shares of
          any class of capital stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
          or any securities exercisable for or convertible into shares of any
          class of capital stock of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries
          (other than as part of a pro rata offer or distribution by the Company
          or such Subsidiary to all holders of such shares), or (3) shall sell,
          purchase, lease, exchange, mortgage, pledge, transfer or otherwise
          acquire (other than as a pro rata dividend) or dispose, to, from or
          with, as the case may be, in one transaction or a series of
          transactions, the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or assets
          (including securities) on terms and conditions less favorable to the
          Company or such Subsidiary than the Company or such Subsidiary would
          be able to obtain in arm's-length negotiation with an unaffiliated
          third party, or (4) shall receive any compensation from the Company or
          any of its Subsidiaries for services other than compensation for
          employment as a regular or part-time employee, or fees for serving as
          a director, at rates in accordance with the Company's (or its
          Subsidiary's) past practices, or (5) shall receive the benefit,
          directly or indirectly (except proportionately as a stockholder), of
          any loans, advances, guarantees, pledges or other financial assistance
          or any tax credits or tax advantage provided by the Company or any of
          its Subsidiaries, or (6) shall engage in any transaction with the
          Company (or any of its Subsidiaries) involving the sale, license,
          transfer or grant of any right in, or disclosure of, any patents,
          copyrights, trade secrets, trademarks, know-how or any other
          intellectual or industrial property rights recognized under any
          country's intellectual property laws which the Company (including its
          Subsidiaries) owns or has the right to use on terms and conditions not
          approved by the Board of Directors of the Company; or


<PAGE>

                                      18

                     (B) any Person, alone or together with its Affiliates
          and Associates, shall become an Acquiring Person other than pursuant
          to any transaction set forth in Section 13(a) hereof; or

                     (C) during such time as there is an Acquiring Person,
          there shall be any reclassification of securities (including any
          reverse stock split), or any recapitalization of the Company, or any
          merger or consolidation of the Company with any of its Subsidiaries or
          any other transaction or series of transactions involving the Company
          or any of its Subsidiaries (whether or not with or into or otherwise
          involving an Acquiring Person or any Affiliate or Associate of such
          Acquiring Person) which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of
          increasing by more than 1% the proportionate share of the outstanding
          share of any class of equity securities of the Company or any of its
          Subsidiaries, or securities exercisable for or convertible into equity
          securities of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which is
          directly or indirectly beneficially owned by any Acquiring Person or
          any Affiliate or Associate of any Acquiring Person, 

     then, subject to the last sentence of Section 23(a)(i) and except as
     otherwise provided in this Section 11, each holder of a Right shall
     thereafter have a right to receive for each Right, upon payment of an
     amount equal to the product of the then current Purchase Price and the then
     number of Units of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable
     immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Flip-In Event (the "FLIP-IN
     EXERCISE PAYMENT") and exercise of a Right in accordance with the terms of
     this Rights Agreement, such number of Units of Preferred Stock as shall
     equal the result obtained by dividing the Flip-In Exercise Payment by 50%
     of the Current Market Price per Unit of Preferred Stock on the date of the
     first occurrence of a Flip-In Event (such number of Units of Preferred
     Stock is herein called the "ADJUSTMENT SHARES"); provided that the Purchase
     Price per Unit and the number of Adjustment Shares shall be further
     adjusted as provided in this Agreement to reflect any events occurring
     after the date of such first occurrence; and PROVIDED FURTHER that if the
     transaction that would otherwise give rise to the foregoing adjustment is
     also subject to the provisions of Section 13 hereof, then only the
     provisions of Section 13 hereof shall apply and no adjustment shall be made
     pursuant to this Section 11(a)(ii).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
     adjustment pursuant to this Section 11(a)(ii) shall not occur with respect
     to any Rights that are or were at any time on or after the earlier of the
     Stock Acquisition Date or the Distribution Date beneficially owned by the
     Acquiring Person or any Associate or Affiliate of the Acquiring Person
     which is or was involved in or which caused or facilitated, directly or
     indirectly, the event or transaction or transactions listed above in this
     Section 11(a)(ii) in respect of which such adjustment occurs (or any
     subsequent transferee of such Rights).

<PAGE>
                                     19


               (iii) To the extent permitted by applicable law and any
     agreements in effect on the date hereof to which the Company is a party,
     the Company may:  (A) determine the value of the Adjustment Shares issuable
     upon the exercise of a Right (the "CURRENT VALUE") and (B) with respect to
     each Right, upon exercise of such Right, make adequate provision to
     substitute for the Adjustment Shares not received upon exercise of such
     Right (1) cash, (2) Common Stock or other equity securities of the Company
     (including, without limitation, shares, or units of shares, of preferred
     stock which, by virtue of having dividend, voting and liquidation rights
     substantially comparable to those of Units of Preferred Stock, are deemed
     in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company to have
     substantially the same value as Units of Preferred Stock (such shares or
     units of shares of preferred stock are herein called "PREFERRED STOCK
     EQUIVALENTS"), (3) debt securities of the Company, (4) other assets, or (5)
     any combination of the foregoing, having a value which, when added to the
     value of the Units of Preferred Stock actually issued upon exercise of such
     Right, shall have an aggregate value equal to the Current Value, where such
     aggregate value has been determined in good faith by the Board of Directors
     of the Company based upon the advice of a nationally recognized independent
     investment banking firm selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of
     the Company; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, if the Company shall not have made adequate
     provision to deliver value pursuant to clause (B) above within thirty days
     following the later of (x) first occurrence of a Flip-In Event and (y) the
     date of which the Company's right of redemption pursuant to Section 23(a)
     expires (the later of (x) and (y) being referred to herein as the "FLIP-IN
     TRIGGER DATE") (such thirty day period is herein called the "SUBSTITUTION
     PERIOD"), then the Company shall be obligated to deliver, upon the
     surrender for exercise of a Right and without requiring payment of the
     Purchase Price, Units of Preferred Stock (to the extent available) and
     then, if necessary, cash, which Units and/or cash have an aggregate value
     equal to the excess of the Current Value over the Purchase Price.  To the
     extent that the Company determines to take action pursuant to the first
     sentence of this Section 11(a)(iii), the Company (x) shall provide, subject
     to the first sentence of Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, that such action shall
     apply uniformly to all outstanding Rights, and (y) may suspend the
     exercisability of the Rights until the expiration of the Substitution
     Period in order to decide the appropriate form of distribution to be made
     pursuant to such first sentence and to determine the value thereof.  In the
     event of any such suspension, the Company shall issue a public announcement
     stating that the exercisability of the Rights has been temporarily
     suspended, as well as a public announcement at such time as the suspension
     is no longer in effect.  For purposes of this Section 11(a)(iii), the value
     of a Unit of Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price per Unit on
     the Flip-In Trigger Date and the per share or per unit value of any
     Preferred Stock Equivalent shall be deemed to equal the Current Market
     Price per share or unit on such date.  The Board of Directors may, but
     shall not be required to, establish procedures to allocate the right to
     receive Preferred Stock upon the exercise of the Rights among holders of
     Rights pursuant to this Section 11(a)(iii).


<PAGE>

                                      20

          (b)  In case the Company shall fix a record date for the issuance 
of rights (other than the Rights), options or warrants to all holders of 
Preferred Stock entitling them to subscribe for or purchase (for a period 
expiring within forty-five calendar days after such record date) Preferred 
Stock, shares having the same rights, privileges and preferences as the 
Preferred Stock ("EQUIVALENT PREFERRED STOCK") or securities convertible into 
Preferred Stock or Equivalent Preferred Stock at a price per share of 
Preferred Stock or Equivalent Preferred Stock (or having a conversion price 
per share, if a security convertible into Preferred Stock or Equivalent 
Preferred Stock) less than the Current Market Price per share of Preferred 
Stock on such record date, the Purchase Price to be in effect after such 
record date shall be determined by multiplying the Purchase Price in effect 
immediately prior to such record date by a fraction, the numerator of which 
shall be the number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding on such record 
date, plus the number of shares of Preferred Stock which the aggregate 
offering price of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock and/or 
Equivalent Preferred Stock (and/or the aggregate initial conversion price of 
the convertible securities so to be offered) would purchase at such Current 
Market Price, and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of 
Preferred Stock outstanding on such record date, plus the number of 
additional shares of Preferred Stock and/or Equivalent Preferred Stock to be 
offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible 
securities so to be offered are initially convertible).  In case such 
subscription price may be paid by delivery of consideration part or all of 
which may be in a form other than cash, the value of such non-cash 
consideration shall be as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors 
of the Company, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed 
with the Rights Agent.  Shares of Preferred Stock owned by or held for the 
account of the Company shall not be deemed outstanding for the purpose of any 
such computation.  Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever such a 
record date is fixed, and in the event that such rights or warrants are not 
so issued, the Purchase Price shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price 
which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.

          (c)  In case the Company shall fix a record date for a distribution 
to all holders of Preferred Stock (including any such distribution made in 
connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the 
continuing corporation) of evidences of indebtedness, cash, assets (other 
than a dividend payable in Preferred Stock, but including any dividend 
payable in stock other than Preferred Stock) or subscription rights or 
warrants (excluding those referred to in Section 11(b) hereof), the Purchase 
Price to be in effect after such record date shall be determined by 
multiplying the Purchase Price in effect immediately prior to such record 
date by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price 
per share of Preferred Stock on such record date, less the fair market value 
(as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose 
determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent) 
of the portion of the cash, assets or evidences of indebtedness so to be 
distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to a share 
of Preferred Stock and the denominator of which shall be such Current Market 
Price per share of Preferred Stock.  Such 


<PAGE>

                                      21

adjustments shall be made successively whenever such a record date is fixed, 
and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Purchase Price 
shall be adjusted to be the Purchase Price which would have been in effect if 
such record date had not been fixed.

          (d)  (i)  For the purpose of any computation hereunder, other than 
computations made pursuant to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the "CURRENT MARKET 
PRICE" per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the 
average of the daily closing prices per share of the Common Stock for the 
thirty consecutive Trading Days (as such term is hereinafter defined) 
immediately prior to such date, and for purpose of computations made pursuant 
to Section 11(a)(iii) hereof, the "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" per share of the 
Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily 
closing Prices per share of the Common Stock for the ten consecutive Trading 
Days immediately following such date; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in the event 
that the Current Market Price per share of the Common Stock is determined 
during a period following the announcement by the issuer of the Common Stock 
of (i) any dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a regular 
quarterly cash dividend and other than the Rights), (ii) any subdivision, 
combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, and prior to the 
expiration of the requisite thirty Trading Day or ten Trading Day period, as 
set forth above, the ex-dividend date for such dividend or distribution, or 
the record date for such subdivision, combination or reclassification occurs, 
then, and in each such case, the Current Market Price shall be properly 
adjusted to take into account ex-dividend trading.  The closing price for 
each day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in case no such sale 
takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices, 
regular way, in either case as reported in the principal consolidated 
transaction reporting system with respect to securities listed or admitted to 
trading on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the shares of Common Stock are 
not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported 
in the principal consolidated transaction reporting system with respect to 
securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on which the 
shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading or, if the shares of 
Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities 
exchange, the last quoted sale price or, if not so quoted, the average of the 
high bid and low asked prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by 
Nasdaq or such other system then in use, or, if on any such date the shares 
of Common Stock are not quoted by any such organization, the average of the 
closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a professional market maker 
making a market in the Common Stock selected by the Board of Directors of the 
Company.  If on any such date no market maker is making a market in the 
Common Stock, the fair value of such shares on such date as determined in 
good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company shall be used.  The term 
"TRADING DAY" shall mean a day on which the principal national securities 
exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to 
trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the shares of Common 
Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities 
exchange, a Business Day.  If the Common Stock is not publicly held or not so 
listed or traded, "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" per share shall mean the fair value 
per share as determined in 

<PAGE>

                                      22


good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination 
shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent and shall be 
conclusive for all purposes.

          (ii) For the purpose of any computation hereunder, the "CURRENT 
MARKET PRICE" per share of Preferred Stock shall be determined in the same 
manner as set forth above for Common Stock in clause (i) of this Section 
11(d) (other than the third sentence thereof).  If the current market price 
per share of Preferred Stock cannot be determined in the manner provided 
above or if the Preferred Stock is not publicly held or listed or traded in a 
manner described in clause (i) of this Section 11(d), the "CURRENT MARKET 
PRICE" per share of Preferred Stock shall be conclusively deemed to be an 
amount equal to 1,000 (as such amount may be appropriately adjusted for such 
events as stock splits, stock dividends and recapitalizations with respect to 
Common Stock occurring after the date of this Agreement) multiplied by the 
current market price per share of Common Stock.  If neither Common Stock nor 
Preferred Stock is publicly held or so listed or traded, "CURRENT MARKET 
PRICE" per share of the Preferred Stock shall mean the fair value per share 
as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose 
determination shall be described in a statement filed with the Rights Agent 
and shall be binding on the Rights Agent and the holders of the Rights.  For 
all purposes of this Agreement, the "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" of a Unit of 
Preferred Stock shall be equal to the "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" of one share of 
Preferred Stock divided by 1,000.

          (e)  Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no adjustment 
in the Purchase Price shall be required unless such adjustment would require 
an increase or decrease of at least one percent in the Purchase Price; 
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that any adjustments which by reason of this Section 11(e) 
are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account 
in any subsequent adjustment.  All calculations under this Section 11 shall 
be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest ten-thousandth of a share, as 
the case may be. Notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 11(e), 
any adjustment required by this Section 11 shall be made no later than the 
earlier of (i) three years from the date of the transaction which mandates 
such adjustment, or (ii) the Redemption Date.

          (f)  If as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to Section 
11(a)(ii) or Section 13(a) hereof, the holder of any Right thereafter 
exercised shall become entitled to receive any shares of capital stock other 
than Preferred Stock, thereafter the number of such other shares so 
receivable upon exercise of any Right and the Purchase Price thereof shall be 
subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly 
equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to the Preferred 
Stock contained in Section 11(a), (b), (c), (g), (h), (i), (j), (k) and (m) 
hereof, and the provisions of Sections 7, 9, 10, 13 and 14 hereof with 
respect to the Preferred Stock shall apply on like terms to any such other 
shares.

          (g)  All Rights originally issued by the Company subsequent to any 
adjustment made to the Purchase Price hereunder shall evidence the right to 
purchase, at the adjusted 


<PAGE>

                                      23

Purchase Price, the number of Units of Preferred Stock purchasable from time 
to time hereunder upon exercise of the Rights, all subject to further 
adjustment as provided herein.

          (h)  Unless the Company shall have exercised its election as 
provided in Section 11(i), upon each adjustment of the Purchase Price as a 
result of the calculations made in Section 11(b) and (c), each Right 
outstanding immediately prior to the making of such adjustment shall 
thereafter evidence the right to purchase, at the adjusted Purchase Price, 
that number of Units of Preferred Stock (calculated to the nearest 
ten-thousandth) obtained by (i) multiplying (x) the number of Units covered 
by a Right immediately prior to this adjustment by (y) the Purchase Price in 
effect immediately prior to such adjustment of the Purchase Price, and (ii) 
dividing the product so obtained by the Purchase Price in effect immediately 
after such adjustment of the Purchase Price.

          (i)  The Company may elect on or after the date of any adjustment 
of the Purchase Price or any adjustment to the number of Units of Preferred 
Stock for which a Right may be exercised, to adjust the number of Rights, in 
lieu of any adjustment in the number of Units of Preferred Stock purchasable 
upon the exercise of a Right.  Each of the Rights outstanding after the 
adjustment in the number of Rights shall be exercisable for the number of 
Units of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable immediately prior 
to such adjustment.  Each Right held of record prior to such adjustment of 
the number of Rights shall become that number of Rights (calculated to the 
nearest ten-thousandth) obtained by dividing the Purchase Price in effect 
immediately prior to adjustment of the Purchase Price by the Purchase Price 
in effect immediately after adjustment of the Purchase Price.  The Company 
shall make a public announcement of its election to adjust the number of 
Rights, indicating the record date for the adjustment, and, if known at the 
time, the amount of the adjustment to be made. This record date may be the 
date on which the Purchase Price is adjusted or any day thereafter, but, if 
the Right Certificates have been issued, shall be at least ten days later 
than the date of the public announcement.  If Right Certificates have been 
issued, upon each adjustment of the number of Rights pursuant to this Section 
11(i), the Company shall, as promptly as practicable, cause to be distributed 
to holders of record of Right Certificates on such record date Right 
Certificates evidencing, subject to Section 14 hereof, the additional Rights 
to which such holders shall be entitled as a result of such adjustment, or, 
at the option of the Company, shall cause to be distributed to such holders 
of record in substitution and replacement for the Right Certificates held by 
such holders prior to the date of adjustment, and upon surrender thereof, if 
required by the Company, new Right Certificates evidencing all the Rights to 
which such holders shall be entitled after such adjustment. Right 
Certificates so to be distributed shall be issued, executed and countersigned 
in the manner provided for herein (and may bear, at the option of the 
Company, the adjusted Purchase Price) and shall be registered in the names of 
the holders of record of Right Certificates on the record date specified in 
the public announcement.

<PAGE>
                                      24



          (j)  Irrespective of any adjustment or change in the Purchase Price or
the number of Units of Preferred Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights,
the Right Certificates theretofore and thereafter issued may continue to express
the Purchase Price per Unit and the number of Units of Preferred Stock which
were expressed in the initial Right Certificate issued hereunder.

          (k)  Before taking any action that would cause an adjustment reducing
the Purchase Price below the then par value of the number of Units of Preferred
Stock issuable upon exercise of the Rights, the Company shall take any corporate
action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the
Company may validly and legally issue such fully paid and nonassessable number
of Units of Preferred Stock at such adjusted Purchase Price.

          (l)  In any case in which this Section 11 shall require that an
adjustment in the Purchase Price be made effective as of a record date for a
specified event, the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of such
event the issuance to the holder of any Right exercised after such record date
the Units of Preferred Stock and other capital stock or securities of the
Company, if any, issuable upon such exercise over and above the Units of
Preferred Stock and other capital stock or securities of the Company, if any,
issuable upon such exercise on the basis of the Purchase Price in effect prior
to such adjustment; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Company shall deliver to such
holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such holder's right
to receive such additional shares (fractional or otherwise) and other capital
stock or securities upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustments.

          (m)  Anything in this Section 11 to the contrary notwithstanding, the
Company shall be entitled to make such reductions in the Purchase Price, in
addition to those adjustments expressly required by this Section 11, as and to
the extent that in their good faith judgment the Board of Directors of the
Company shall determine to be advisable in order that any (i) consolidation or
subdivision of the Preferred Stock, (ii) issuance for cash of any shares of
Preferred Stock at less than the current market price, (iii) issuance for cash
of shares of Preferred Stock or securities which by their terms are convertible
into or exchangeable for shares of Preferred Stock, (iv) stock dividends or (v)
issuance of rights, options or warrants referred to in this Section 11,
hereafter made by the Company to holders of its Preferred Stock shall not be
taxable to such stockholders.

          (n)  The Company covenants and agrees that it shall not, at any time
after the Distribution Date, (i) consolidate with any other Person (other than a
Subsidiary of the Company), (ii) merge with or into any other Person (other than
a Subsidiary of the Company), or (iii) sell or transfer (or permit any
Subsidiary to sell or transfer), in one transaction or a series of related
transactions, assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or
earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole) to, any
other Person or Persons (other than the Company and/or any of its Subsidiaries),
if (x) at the time of, or immediately 

<PAGE>
                                      25



after, such consolidation, merger or sale there are any rights, warrants or 
other instruments securities outstanding or agreements in effect which 
substantially diminish or otherwise eliminate the benefits intended to be 
afforded by the Rights or (y) prior to, simultaneously with, or immediately 
after, such consolidation, merger or sale, the stockholders of the Person who 
constitutes, or would constitute, the "PRINCIPAL PARTY" for purposes of 
Section 13(a) hereof shall have received a distribution of Rights previously 
owned by such Person or any of its Affiliates and Associates.

          (o)  The Company covenants and agrees that, after the Distribution
Date, it will not, except as permitted by Section 23, Section 24 or Section 27
hereof, take (or permit any Subsidiary to take) any action if at the time such
action is taken it is reasonably foreseeable that such action will diminish
substantially or eliminate the benefits intended to be afforded by the Rights.

          (p)  Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, in
the event that the Company shall at any time prior to the Distribution Date
(i) declare a dividend on the outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in
shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock,
(iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of
shares, or (iv) issue any shares of its capital stock in a reclassification of
Common Stock (including any such reclassification in connection with a
consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing or surviving
corporation), the number of Rights associated with each share of Common Stock
then outstanding, or issued or delivered thereafter but prior to the
Distribution Date, shall be proportionately adjusted so that the number of
Rights thereafter associated with each share of Common Stock following any such
event shall equal the result obtained by multiplying the number of Rights
associated with each share of Common Stock immediately prior to such event by a
fraction the numerator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common
Stock outstanding immediately prior to the occurrence of the event and the
denominator of which shall be the total number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately following the occurrence of such event.

          SECTION 12.  CERTIFICATION OF ADJUSTMENTS.  Whenever an adjustment 
is made as provided in Sections 11 and 13 hereof, the Company shall (a) 
promptly prepare a certificate setting forth such adjustment and a brief 
statement of the facts giving rise to such adjustment, (b) promptly file with 
the Rights Agent and with each transfer agent for the Preferred Stock a copy 
of such certificate and (c) mail a brief summary thereof to each holder of a 
Right Certificate (or, if prior to the Distribution Date, to each holder of a 
certificate representing shares of Common Stock) in accordance with Section 
26 hereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, the failure of the 
company to give such notice shall not affect the validity of, or the force or 
effect of, or the requirement for, such adjustment. The Rights Agent shall be 
fully protected in relying on any certificate prepared by the Company 
pursuant to Sections 11 and 13 and on any adjustment therein contained and 
shall not be deemed to have knowledge of 

<PAGE>
                                      26



any such adjustment unless and until it shall have received such certificate. 
Any adjustment to be made pursuant to Sections 11 and 13 of this Rights 
Agreement shall be effective as of the date of the event giving rise to such 
adjustment.

          SECTION 13.  CONSOLIDATION, MERGER OR SALE OR TRANSFER OF ASSETS OR
EARNING POWER.

<PAGE>
                                      27



          (a)  In the event that, at any time on or after the Distribution Date,
directly or directly, (x) the Company shall consolidate with, or merge with and
into, any other Person or Persons and the Company shall not be the surviving or
continuing corporation of such consolidation or merger, or (y) any Person or
Persons shall consolidate with, or merge with and into, the Company, and the
Company shall be the continuing or surviving corporation of such consolidation
or merger and, in connection with such consolidation or merger, all or part of
the outstanding shares of Common Stock shall be changed into or exchanged for
stock or other securities of any other Person or of the Company or each or any
other property (other than, in the case of the transactions described in
subparagraphs (x) or (y), a merger or consolidation which would result in all of
the Voting Power represented by the securities of the Company outstanding
immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining
outstanding or by being converted into securities of the surviving entity) all
of the Voting Power represented by the securities of the Company or such
surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and
the holders of such securities not having changed as a result of such
transactions), or (z) the Company or one or more of its Subsidiaries shall sell,
mortgage or otherwise transfer to any other Person or any Affiliate or Associate
of such Person, in one transaction, or a series of related transactions, assets
or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the
Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole), then, on the first occurrence
of any such event, proper provision shall be made so that (i) each holder of
record of a Right shall thereafter have the right to receive, upon payment of an
amount equal to the product of the then current Purchase Price per Unit and the
then number of Units of Preferred Stock for which a Right was exercisable
immediately prior to the first occurrence of a Flip-Over Event (or, if a Flip-In
Event hereof has occurred prior to the first occurrence of a Flip-Over Event,
multiplying the Purchase Price per Unit in effect immediately prior to the first
occurrence of a Flip-In Event by the number of Units of Preferred Stock for
which a Right was exercisable immediately prior to such first occurrence of a
Flip-In Event (the "FLIP-OVER EXERCISE PAYMENT") and the exercise of a Right in
accordance with the terms of this Rights Agreement, such number of shares of
validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and freely tradeable Common Stock
of the Principal Party (as defined herein) not subject to any liens,
encumbrances, rights of first refusal or other adverse claims, as shall be equal
to the result obtained by dividing the Flip-Over Exercise Payment by 50% of the
Current Market Price (determined as provided in Section 11(d) hereof with
respect to the Common Stock) per share of the Common Stock of such Principal
Party on the date of consummation of such Flip-Over Event (or the fair market
value on such date of other securities or property of the Principal Party, as
provided for herein); provided that the Purchase Price per share and the number
of shares of Common Stock of such Principal Party issuable upon exercise of each
Right shall be further adjusted as provided in this Agreement to reflect any
events occurring after the date of the first occurrence of a Flip-Over Event;
(ii) such Principal Party shall thereafter be liable for, and shall assume, by
virtue of such Flip-Over Event, all the obligations and duties of the Company
pursuant to this Rights Agreement; (iii) the term "COMPANY" for all purposes of
this Rights Agreement shall thereafter be deemed to refer to such Principal
Party, it being specifically intended that the provisions of 

<PAGE>
                                      28



Section 11 hereof shall only apply to such Principal Party following the 
first occurrence of a Flip-Over Event; and (iv) such Principal Party shall 
take such steps (including, but not limited to, the reservation of a 
sufficient number of shares of its Common Stock in accordance with Section 9 
hereof) in connection with the consummation of any such transaction as may be 
necessary to assure that the provisions hereof shall thereafter be 
applicable, as nearly as reasonably may be, in relation to its shares of 
Common Stock thereafter deliverable upon the exercise of the Rights; 
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, upon the subsequent occurrence of any merger, 
consolidation, sale of all or substantially all assets, recapitalization, 
reclassification of shares, reorganization or other extraordinary transaction 
in respect of such Principal Party, each holder of a Right shall thereupon be 
entitled to receive, upon exercise of a Right, such cash, shares, warrants 
and other property which such holder would have been entitled to receive had 
he, at the time of such transaction, owned the shares of Common Stock of the 
Principal Party purchasable upon the exercise of a Right, and such Principal 
Party shall take such steps (including, but not limited to, reservation of 
shares of stock) as may be necessary to permit the subsequent exercise of the 
right in accordance with the terms hereof for such cash, shares, rights, 
warrants and other property.

          (b)  "PRINCIPAL PARTY" shall mean

               (i)   in the case of any transaction described in (x) or (y) of
     the first sentence of Section 13(a) hereof: (A) the Person that is the
     issuer of the securities into which shares of Common Stock of the Company
     are converted in such merger or consolidation, or, if there is more than
     one such issuer, the issuer the Common Stock of which has the greatest
     market value or (B) if no securities are so issued, (x) the Person that is
     the other party to the merger or consolidation and that survives said
     merger or consolidation, or, if there is more than one such Person, the
     Person the Common Stock of which has the greatest market value or (y) if
     the Person that is the other Party to the merger or consolidation does not
     survive the merger or consolidation, the Person that does survive the
     merger or consolidation (including the Company if it survives); and

               (ii)  in the case of any transaction described in (z) of the
     first sentence in Section 13(a) hereof, the Person that is the party
     receiving the greatest portion of the assets or earning power transferred
     pursuant to such transaction or transactions, or, if each Person that is a
     party to such transaction or transactions receives the same portion of the
     assets or earning power so transferred or if the Person receiving the
     greatest portion of the assets or earning power cannot be determined,
     whichever of such Persons as is the issuer of Common Stock having the
     greatest market value of shares outstanding; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that in any
     such case described in the foregoing (b)(i) or (b)(ii), if the Common Stock
     of such Person is not at such time and has not been continuously over the
     preceding 12-month period registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act,
     and such Person is a direct or indirect Subsidiary of another Person the
     Common Stock of which is and has been so registered, the term "PRINCIPAL
     PARTY" shall refer to such other Person, or if such 

<PAGE>
                                      29



     Person is a Subsidiary, directly or indirectly, of more than one Person, 
     the Common Stocks of all of which are and have been so registered, the 
     term "PRINCIPAL PARTY" shall refer to whichever of such Persons is the 
     issuer of the Common Stock having the greatest market value of shares 
     outstanding.

          (c)  The Company shall not consummate any consolidation, merger, sale
or transfer referred to in Section 13(a) unless the Principal Party shall have a
sufficient number of authorized shares of its Common Stock which have not been
issued or reserved for issuance to permit the exercise of the Rights in
accordance with this Section 13 and unless prior thereto the Company and the
Principal Party involved therein shall have executed and delivered to the Rights
Agent an agreement confirming that the requirements of Sections 13(a) and (b)
hereof shall promptly be performed in accordance with their terms and that such
consolidation, merger, sale or transfer of assets shall not result in a default
by the Principal Party under this Rights Agreement as the same shall have been
assumed by the Principal Party pursuant to Section 13(a) and (b) hereof and
further providing that, as soon as practicable after executing such agreement
pursuant to this Section 13, the Principal Party at its own expense shall:

               (i)   prepare and file a registration statement under the
     Securities Act, if necessary, with respect to the Rights and the securities
     purchasable upon exercise of the Rights on an appropriate form, use its
     best efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective as
     soon as practicable after such filing and use its best efforts to cause
     such registration statement to remain effective (with a prospectus at all
     times meeting the requirements of the Act) until the date of expiration of
     the rights, and similarly comply with applicable state securities laws;

               (ii)  use its best efforts, if the Common Stock of the Principal
     Party shall become listed on a national securities exchange, to list (or
     continue the listing of) the Rights and the securities purchasable upon
     exercise of the Rights on such securities exchange and, if the Common Stock
     of the Principal Party shall not be listed on a national securities
     exchange, to cause the Rights and the securities purchased upon exercise of
     the Rights to be reported by Nasdaq or such other system then in use;

               (iii) deliver to holders of the Rights historical financial
     statements for the Principal Party which comply in all respects with the
     requirements for registration on Form 10 (or any successor form) under the
     Exchange Act; and

               (iv)  obtain waivers of any rights of first refusal or
     preemptive rights in respect of the shares of Common Stock of the Principal
     Party subject to purchase upon exercise of outstanding Rights.

<PAGE>
                                      30




In the event that any of the transactions described in Section 13(a) hereof
shall occur at any time after the occurrence of a transaction described in
Section 11(a)(ii) hereof, the Rights which have not theretofore been exercised
shall thereafter be exercisable in the manner described in Section 13(a).  The
provisions of this Section 13 shall similarly apply to all successive Flip-Over
Events.

          (d)  Furthermore, in case the Principal Party which is to be a party
to a transaction referred to in this Section 13 has a provision in any of its
authorized securities or in its Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws or other
instrument governing its corporate affairs, which provision would have the
effect of (i) causing such Principal Party to issue, in connection with, or as a
consequence of, the consummation of a transaction referred to in this Section
13, shares of Common Stock of such Principal Party at less than the then Current
Market Price per share (determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof) or
securities exercisable for, or convertible into, Common Stock of such Principal
Party at less than such then current market price (other than to holders of
Rights pursuant to this Section 13) or (ii) providing for any special payment,
tax or similar provisions in connection with the issuance of the Common Stock of
such Principal Party pursuant to the provisions of Section 13; then, in such
event, the Company hereby agrees with each holder of Rights that it shall not
consummate any such transaction unless prior thereto the Company and such
Principal Party shall have executed and delivered to the Rights Agent a
supplemental agreement providing that the provision in question of such
Principal Party shall have been cancelled, waived or amended, or that the
authorized securities shall be redeemed, so that the applicable provision will
have no effect in connection with, or as a consequence of, the consummation of
the proposed transaction.

          SECTION 14.  FRACTIONAL RIGHTS AND FRACTIONAL SHARES.

          (a)  The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Rights or
to distribute Right Certificates which evidence fractional Rights.  In lieu of
such fractional Rights, there shall be paid to the holders of record of the
Right Certificates with regard to which such fractional Rights would otherwise
be issuable, an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the then current
market value of a whole Right.  For the purposes of this Section 14(a), the then
current market value of a Right shall be determined in the same manner as the
Current Market Price of a share of Common Stock shall be determined pursuant to
Section 11(d) hereof.

          (b)  The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of shares 
of Preferred Stock (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one 
one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock) upon exercise of the Rights or 
to distribute certificates which evidence fractional shares of Preferred 
Stock (other than fractions which are integral multiples of one 
one-thousandth of a share of Preferred Stock).  In lieu of issuing fractions 
of shares of Preferred Stock that are not integral multiples of one 
one-thousandth of a share, there shall be paid to the holder of record of 
Right Certificates at the time such Right Certificates are exercised as 
herein provided an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the then 
current market value of a share 

<PAGE>
                                      31



of Preferred Stock.  For purposes of this Section 14(b), the then current 
market value of a share of Preferred Stock shall be the Current Market Price 
thereof as determined pursuant to Section 11(d) hereof.

          (c)  The holder of a Right by the acceptance of a Right expressly
waives his right to receive any fractional Right or any fractional shares upon
exercise of a Right.

          SECTION 15.  RIGHTS OF ACTION.  All rights of action in respect of
this Agreement, other than any rights of action vested in the Rights Agent
pursuant to Sections 18 and 20 below, are vested in the respective holders of
record of the Right Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the
holders of record of the Common Stock); and any holder of record of any Right
Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), without
the consent of the Rights Agent or of the holder of any other Right Certificate
(or, prior to the Distribution Date, of the Common Stock), may, in his own
behalf and for his own benefit, enforce, and may institute and maintain any
suit, action or proceeding against the Company or any other Person to enforce,
or otherwise act in respect of, his right to exercise the Rights evidenced by
such Right Certificate in the manner provided in such Right Certificate and in
this Agreement.  Without limiting the foregoing or any remedies available to the
holders of Rights, it is specifically acknowledged that the holders of Rights
would not have an adequate remedy at law for any breach of this Agreement and,
accordingly, that they will be entitled to specific performance of the
obligations under, and injunctive relief against actual or threatened violations
of, the obligations of any Person subject to this Agreement. Holders of Rights
shall be entitled to recover the reasonable costs and expenses, including
attorneys' fees, incurred by them in any action to enforce the provisions of
this Agreement.

          SECTION 16.  AGREEMENT OF RIGHT HOLDERS.  Every holder of a Right by
accepting the same consents and agrees with the Company and the Rights Agent and
with every other holder of a Right that:

          (a)  prior to the Distribution Date, the Rights will not be evidenced
by a Right Certificate and will be transferable only in connection with the
transfer of Common Stock;

          (b)  after the Distribution Date, the Right Certificates will be
transferable only on the registry books of the Rights Agent if surrendered at
the principal offices of the Rights Agent, duly endorsed or accompanied by a
proper instrument of transfer;

          (c)  the Company and the Rights Agent may deem and treat the person in
whose name the Right Certificate (or, prior to the Distribution Date, the
associated Common Stock certificate) is registered as the absolute owner thereof
and of the Rights evidenced thereby (notwithstanding any notations of ownership
or writing on the Right Certificate or the associated Common Stock certificate
made by anyone other than the Company or the Rights Agent or the 

<PAGE>
                                      32



transfer agent of the Common Stock) for all purposes whatsoever, and neither 
the Company nor the Rights Agent shall be affected by any notice to the 
contrary; and

          (d)  notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary,
neither the Company nor the Rights Agent, subject to the last sentence of
Section 7(f), shall have any liability to any holder of a Right or other Person
as a result of its inability to perform any of its obligations under this
Agreement by reason of any preliminary or permanent injunction or other order,
decree or ruling issued by a court of competent jurisdiction or by a
governmental, regulatory or administrative agency or commission, or any statute,
rule, regulation or executive order promulgated or enacted by any governmental
authority, prohibiting or otherwise restraining performance of such obligation;
PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the Company must use its best efforts to have any such order,
decree or ruling lifted or otherwise overturned as soon as possible.

          SECTION 17.  RIGHT CERTIFICATE HOLDER NOT DEEMED A STOCKHOLDER.  No
holder of a Right, as such, shall be entitled to vote, receive dividends in
respect of or be deemed for any purpose to be the holder of Preferred Stock or
any other securities of the Company which may at any time be issuable upon the
exercise of the Rights, nor shall anything contained herein or in any Right
Certificate be construed to confer upon the holder of any Right Certificate, as
such, any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote in
the election of directors or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any
meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action, or to
receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (except as
provided in Section 25 hereof), or to receive dividends or subscription rights
in respect of any such stock or securities, or otherwise, until the Right or
Rights evidenced by such Right Certificate shall have been exercised in
accordance with the provisions hereof.

          SECTION 18.  CONCERNING THE RIGHTS AGENT.

          (a)  The Company agrees to pay to the Rights Agent reasonable
compensation for all service rendered by it hereunder and, from time to time, on
demand of the Rights Agent, its reasonable expenses and counsel fees and other
disbursements incurred in the administration and execution of this Rights
Agreement and the exercise and performance of its duties hereunder.  The Company
also agrees to indemnify the Rights Agent for, and to hold it harmless against,
any loss, liability or expense incurred without gross negligence, bad faith or
willful misconduct on the part of the Rights Agent for anything done or omitted
to be done by the Rights Agent in connection with the acceptance and
administration of the Rights Agreement, including the cost and expenses of
defending against any claim of liability in the premises.  The indemnity
provided herein shall survive the expiration of the Rights and the termination
of this Rights Agreement.

<PAGE>
                                      33



          (b)  The Rights Agent shall be protected and shall incur no liability
for or in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it in connection
with its administration of this Rights Agreement in reliance upon any Right
Certificate, certificate for Preferred Stock or other securities of the Company,
instrument of assignment or transfer, power of attorney, endorsement, affidavit,
letter, notice, direction, consent, certificate, statement or other paper or
document believed by it to be genuine and to be signed, executed and, where
necessary, guaranteed, verified or acknowledged, by the proper Person or
Persons.

          (c)  Notwithstanding anything in this Rights Agreement to the
contrary, in no event shall the Rights Agent be liable for special, indirect or
consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including but not limited
to lost profits), even if the Rights Agent has been advised of the likelihood of
such loss or damage and regardless of the form of the action.

          SECTION 19.  MERGER OR CONSOLIDATION OR CHANGED NAME OF RIGHTS AGENT.

          (a)  Any corporation into which the Rights Agent or any successor
Rights Agent may be merged or with which it may be consolidated, or any
corporation resulting from any merger or consolidation to which the Rights Agent
or any successor Rights Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to
the corporate trust or stock transfer business of the Rights Agent or any
successor Rights Agent, shall be the successor to the Rights Agent, under this
Rights Agreement without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act
on the part of any of the parties hereto, provided that such corporation would
be eligible for appointment as a successor Rights Agent under the provisions of
Section 21 hereof.  In case at the time such successor Rights Agent shall
succeed to the agency created by this Rights Agreement, any of the Right
Certificates shall have been countersigned but not delivered, any such successor
Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature of the predecessor Rights Agent and
deliver such Right Certificates so countersigned; and, in case at that time any
of the Right Certificates shall not have been countersigned, any successor
Rights Agent may countersign such Right Certificates either in the name of the
predecessor Rights Agent or in the name of the successor Rights Agent; and in
all such cases such Right Certificates shall have the full force provided in the
Right Certificates and in this Rights Agreement.

          (b)  In case at any time the name of the Rights Agent shall be changed
and at such time any of the Right Certificates shall have been countersigned but
not delivered, the Rights Agent may adopt the countersignature under its prior
name and deliver such Right Certificates so countersigned; and in case at that
time any of the Right Certificates shall not have been countersigned, the Rights
Agent may countersign such Right Certificates either in its prior name or in its
changed name; and in all such cases such Right Certificate shall have the full
force provided in the Right Certificates and in this Rights Agreement.

<PAGE>
                                      34



          SECTION 20.  DUTIES OF RIGHTS AGENT.  The Rights Agent undertakes the
duties and obligations imposed by this Rights Agreement upon the following terms
and conditions, and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this
Agreement against the Rights Agent by all of which the Company and the holder of
Right Certificates, by their acceptance thereof, shall be bound:

          (a)  Before the Rights Agent acts or refrains from acting, the Rights
Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be legal counsel for the Company),
and the opinion of such counsel shall be full and complete authorization and
protection to the Rights Agent as to any action taken or omitted to be taken by
it in good faith and in accordance with such opinion.

          (b)  Whenever in the performance of its duties under this Rights
Agreement the Rights Agent shall deem it necessary or desirable that any fact or
matter (including, without limitation, the identity of any Acquiring Person) be
proved or established by the Company prior to taking or suffering any action
hereunder, such fact or matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be
herein specifically prescribed) may be deemed to be conclusively proved and
established by certificate signed by the President or any Vice President and by
the Chief Financial Officer or the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the
Company and delivered to the Rights Agent; and such certificate shall be full
authorization to the Rights Agent for any action taken or suffered in good faith
by it under the provisions of this Rights Agreement in reliance upon such
certificate.

          (c)  The Rights Agent shall be liable hereunder only for its own gross
negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.

          (d)  The Rights Agent shall not be liable for or by reason of any of
the statements of fact or recitals contained in this Rights Agreement or in the
Right Certificates (except its countersignature thereof) or be required to
verify the same, but all such statements and recitals are and shall be deemed to
have been made by the Company only.

          (e)  The Rights Agent shall not be under any responsibility in 
respect of the validity of this Right Agreement or the execution and delivery 
hereof (except the due execution hereof by the Rights Agent) or in respect of 
the validity or execution of any Right Certificate (except its 
countersignature thereof); nor shall it be responsible for any breach by the 
Company of any covenant or condition contained in this Rights Agreement or in 
any Right Certificate; nor shall it be responsible for any adjustment 
required under the provisions of Sections 11, 13, 23 or 24 hereof or 
responsible for the manner, method or amount of any such adjustment or the 
ascertaining of the existence of facts that would require any such adjustment 
(except with respect to the exercise of Rights evidenced by Right 
Certificates after receipt of a certificate furnished pursuant to Section 12 
describing any such adjustment); nor shall it by any act hereunder be deemed 
to make any representation or warranty as to the authorization or reservation 
of any 

<PAGE>
                                      35



shares of Preferred Stock to be issued pursuant to this Rights Agreement or 
any Right Certificate or as to whether any shares of Preferred Stock will, 
when issued, be validly authorized and issued, fully paid and nonassessable.

          (f)  The Company agrees that it will perform, execute, acknowledge and
deliver or cause to be performed, executed, acknowledged and delivered all such
further and other acts, instruments and assurances as may reasonably be required
by the Rights Agent for the carrying out or performing by the Rights Agent of
the provisions of this Rights Agreement.

          (g)  The Rights Agent is hereby authorized and directed to accept
instructions with respect to the performance of its duties hereunder from the
Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President or any Vice President or the
Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or the Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, and to apply to such officers for advice or instructions in connection
with its duties, and it shall not be liable for any action taken or suffered to
be taken by it in good faith in accordance with instructions of any such officer
or for any delay in acting while waiting for such instructions.  Any application
by the Rights Agent for written instructions from the Company may, at the option
of the Rights Agent, set forth in writing any action proposed to be taken or
omitted by the Rights Agent under this Rights Agreement and the date on and/or
after which such action shall be taken or such omission shall be effective
subject to Section 20(c) hereof, the Rights Agent shall not be liable for any
action taken by, or omission of, the Rights Agent in accordance with a proposal
included in any such application on or after the date specified in such
application (which date shall not be less than five Business Days after the date
any officer of the Company actually receives such application, unless any such
officer shall have consented in writing to an earlier date) unless, prior to
taking any such action (or the effective date in the case of an omission), the
Rights Agent shall have received written instructions in response to such
application specifying the action to be taken or omitted.

          (h)  The Rights Agent and any stockholder, director, officer or
employee of the Rights Agent may buy, sell or deal in any of the Rights or other
securities of the Company or become pecuniarily interested in any transaction in
which the Company may be interested, or contract with or lend money to the
Company or otherwise act as fully and freely as though it were not the Rights
Agent under this Rights Agreement.  Nothing herein shall preclude the Rights
Agent from acting in any other capacity for the Company or for any other entity.

          (i)   The Rights Agent may execute and exercise any of the rights or
powers hereby vested in it or perform any duty hereunder either itself or by or
through its attorneys or agents, and the Rights Agent shall not be answerable or
accountable for any act, default, neglect or misconduct of any such attorneys or
agents or for any loss to the Company resulting from any such act, default,
neglect or misconduct, provided reasonable care was exercised in the selection
and continued employment thereof.


<PAGE>
                                      36



          (j)  No provision of this Agreement shall require the Rights Agent to
expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the
performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of its rights if
there shall be reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or
adequate indemnification against such risk or liability is not reasonably
assured to it.

          (k)   If, with respect to any Right Certificate surrendered to the
Rights Agent for exercise or transfer, the certificate contained in the form of
assignment or the form of election to purchase set forth on the reverse thereof,
as the case may be, has either not been completed or indicates an affirmative
response to clause 1 and/or 2 thereof, the Rights Agent shall not take any
further action with respect to such requested exercise or transfer without first
consulting with the Company.

          (l)  The Rights Agent shall not be required to take notice or be
deemed to have notice of any fact, event or determination (including, without
limitation, any dates or events defined in this Rights Agreement or the
designation of any Person as an Acquiring Person, Affiliate or Associate) under
this Rights Agreement unless and until the Rights Agent shall be specifically
notified in writing by the Company of such fact, event or determination.

          SECTION 21.  CHANGE OF RIGHTS AGENT.  The Rights Agent or any 
successor Rights Agent may resign and be discharged from its duties under 
this Rights Agreement upon 30 days notice in writing, or such earlier period 
as shall be agreed to in writing, mailed to the Company and to each transfer 
agent of the Preferred Stock and the Common Stock by registered or certified 
mail, and, at the expense of the Company, to the holders of the Right 
Certificates by first-class mail.  The Company may remove the Rights Agent or 
any successor Rights Agent (with or without cause) upon 30 days notice in 
writing, or such earlier period as shall be agreed to in writing, mailed to 
the Rights Agent or successor Rights Agent, as the case may be, and to each 
transfer agent of the Preferred Stock and the Common Stock by registered or 
certified mail, and to the holders of the Right Certificates by first-class 
mail.  If the Rights Agent shall resign or be removed or shall otherwise 
become incapable of acting, the Company shall appoint a successor to the 
Rights Agent.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 21, 
in no event shall the registration or removal of a Rights Agent be effective 
until a successor Rights Agent shall have been appointed and have accepted 
such appointment.  If the Company shall fail to make such appointment within 
a period of 30 days after such removal or after it has been notified in 
writing of such resignation or incapacity by the resigning or incapacitated 
Rights Agent or by the holder of a Right Certificate (who shall, with such 
notice, submit his Right Certificate for inspection by the Company), then the 
incumbent Rights Agent or the holder of record of any Right Certificate may 
apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a new 
Rights Agent.  Any successor Rights Agent, whether appointed by the Company 
or by such a court, shall be (a) a corporation organized and doing business 
under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, in good standing, 
which is authorized under such 

<PAGE>
                                      37



laws to exercise corporate trust or stock transfer powers and is subject to 
supervision or examination by federal or state authority and which has at the 
time of its appointment as Rights Agent a combined capital and surplus of at 
least $50,000,000 or (b) an Affiliate controlled by a corporation described 
in clause (a) of this sentence.  After appointment, the successor Rights 
Agent shall be vested with the same powers, rights, duties and 
responsibilities as if it had been originally named Rights Agent without 
further act or deed; but the predecessor Rights Agent shall deliver and 
transfer to the successor Rights Agent any property at the time held by it 
hereunder, and execute and deliver any further assurance, conveyance, act or 
deed necessary for the purpose.  Not later than the effective date of any 
such appointment the Company shall file notice thereof in writing with the 
predecessor Rights Agent and each transfer agent of the Preferred Stock and 
the Common Stock, and mail a notice thereof in writing to the registered 
holders of the Right Certificates. Failure to give any notice provided for in 
this Section 21, however, or any defect therein, shall not affect the 
legality or validity of the resignation or removal of the Rights Agent or the 
appointment of the successor Rights Agent, as the case may be.

          SECTION 22.  ISSUANCE OF NEW RIGHT CERTIFICATES.   Notwithstanding 
any of the provisions of this Rights Agreement or of the Rights to the 
contrary, the Company may, at its option, issue new Right Certificates 
evidencing Rights in such form as may be approved by its Board of Directors 
to reflect any adjustment or change in the purchase price per share and the 
number or kind or class of shares of stock or other securities or property 
purchasable under the Right Certificates made in accordance with the 
provisions of this Rights Agreement. In addition, in connection with the 
issuance or sale of shares of Common Stock following the Distribution Date 
and prior to the redemption or expiration of the Rights, the Company (a) 
shall, with respect to shares of Common Stock so issued or sold pursuant to 
the exercise of stock options or under any employee plan or arrangement, or 
upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of securities hereinafter issued by 
the Company, and (b) may, in any other case, if deemed necessary or 
appropriate by the Board of Directors of the Company, issue Right 
Certificates representing the appropriate number of Rights in connection with 
such issuance or sale; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that (i) no such Right Certificate 
shall be issued if, and to the extent that, the Company shall be advised by 
counsel that such issuance would create a significant risk of material 
adverse tax consequences to the Company or the Person to whom such Right 
Certificate would be issued, and (ii) no such Right Certificate shall be 
issued, if, and to the extent that, appropriate adjustment shall otherwise 
have been made in lieu of the issuance thereof.

<PAGE>
                                      38



          SECTION 23.  REDEMPTION.  

          (a)  (i)   The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option,
     at any time prior to the earlier of (x) the Close of Business on the tenth
     day following a Stock Acquisition Date, subject to extension by the Board
     of Directors as provided in Section 27 hereof or (y) the Close of Business
     on the Final Expiration Date, redeem all but not less than all the then
     outstanding Rights at a redemption price of $.01 per Right, as such amount
     may be appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock dividend or
     similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such redemption price
     being hereinafter referred to as the "REDEMPTION PRICE"), and the Company
     may, at its option, by action of a majority of the Company's Board of
     Directors, pay the Redemption Price either in shares of Common Stock (based
     on the Current Market Price, determined in accordance with Section 11(d),
     of the shares of Common Stock at the time of redemption) or cash.  Subject
     to the foregoing, the redemption of the Rights may be made effective at
     such time, on such basis and with such conditions as the Board of Directors
     in its sole discretion may establish.  Notwithstanding anything contained
     in this Agreement to the contrary, the Rights shall not be exercisable
     after the first occurrence of a Flip-In Event until such time as the Board
     of Directors' right of redemption under this Section 23(a)(i) has expired.

               (ii)  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement to 
     the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Company may redeem all but 
     not less than all of the then outstanding Rights at the Redemption Price 
     following the occurrence of a Stock Acquisition Date but prior to any 
     Flip-Over Event in connection with a Flip-Over Event in which all 
     holders of Common Stock are treated alike and not involving (other than 
     as a holder of Common Stock being treated like all other such holders) 
     an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person 
     or any other Person in which such Acquiring Person, Affiliate or 
     Associate has an interest, or any other Person or Persons acting 
     directly or indirectly on behalf of or in association with any such 
     Acquiring Person, Affiliate or Associate.

          (b)   Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the
Company ordering the redemption of the Rights (the date of such action being the
"REDEMPTION DATE"), and without any further action and without any notice, the
right to exercise the Rights will terminate and the only right thereafter or the
holders of Rights shall be to receive the Redemption Price, without any interest
thereon.  Within 10 days after the Redemption Date, the Company shall give
notice of such redemption to the Rights Agent and the holders of the then
outstanding Rights by mailing such notice to all such holders at their last
addresses as they appear upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior
to the Distribution Date, on the registry books of the transfer agent of the
Common Stock.  Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be
deemed given, whether or not the holder receives the notice.  Each such notice
of redemption 

<PAGE>
                                      39



will state the method by which the payment of the Redemption Price will be 
made.  The failure to give notice required by this Section 23(b) or any 
defect therein shall not affect the legality or validity of the action taken 
by the Company.

          (c)  In the case of a redemption permitted under Section 23(a), the
Company may, at its option, discharge all of its obligations with respect to the
Rights by (i) issuing a press release announcing the manner of redemption of the
Rights and (ii) mailing payment of the Redemption Price to the registered
holders of the Rights at their last addresses as they appear on the registry
books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the Distribution Date, on the registry
books of the transfer agent of the Common Stock, and upon such action, all
outstanding Right Certificates shall be null and void without any further action
by the Company.

          SECTION 24.  EXCHANGE.

          (a)  (i)   The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option,
     at any time after any person becomes an Acquiring Person, upon resolution
     adopted by a majority of the Company's Board of Directors, exchange all or
     part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not
     include Rights that have become null and void pursuant to Section 7(f)) for
     Units of Preferred Stock at an exchange ratio of one Unit of Preferred
     Stock per Right, appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock
     dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof (such
     exchange ratio being hereinafter referred to as the "SECTION 24(a)(i)
     EXCHANGE RATIO").  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not
     effect such exchange at any time after any Person (other than an Exempt
     Person), together with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person,
     becomes the Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the shares of Common Stock
     then outstanding.

               (ii)  The Board of Directors of the Company may, at its option,
     at any time after any person becomes an Acquiring Person, upon resolution
     adopted by a majority of the Company's Board of Directors, exchange all or
     part of the then outstanding and exercisable Rights (which shall not
     include Rights that have become null and void pursuant to Section 7(f)) for
     Units of Preferred Stock at an exchange ratio specified in the following
     sentence, as appropriately adjusted to reflect any stock split, stock
     dividend or similar transaction occurring after the date hereof.  Subject
     to such adjustment, each Right may be exchanged for that number of Units of
     Preferred Stock obtained by dividing the Adjustment Spread (as defined
     below) by the then Current Market Price (determined pursuant to
     Section 11(d)) per Unit of Preferred Stock on the earlier of (i) the date
     on which any Person becomes an Acquiring Person and (ii) the date on which
     a tender or exchange offer by any Person (other than an Exempt Person) is
     first published or sent or given within the meaning of Rule 14d-4(a) of the
     Exchange Act Regulations or any successor rule, if upon consummation
     thereof such Person would be 

<PAGE>
                                      40



     the Beneficial Owner of 15% or more of the shares of Common Stock then 
     outstanding (such exchange ratio being the "SECTION 24(a)(ii) EXCHANGE 
     RATIO").  The "ADJUSTMENT SPREAD" shall equal (x) the aggregate market 
     price on the date of such event of the number of Adjustment Shares 
     determined pursuant to Section 11(a)(ii), minus (y) the Purchase Price.  
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may not effect such exchange 
     at any time after any Person (other than an Exempt Person), together 
     with all Affiliates and Associates of such Person, becomes the 
     Beneficial Owner of 50% or more of the shares of the Common Stock then 
     outstanding.

          (b)  Immediately upon the action of the Board of Directors of the
Company ordering the exchange of any Rights pursuant to Section 24(a) and
without any further action and without any notice, the right to exercise such
Rights shall terminate and the only right thereafter of a holder of such Rights
shall be to receive that number of Units of Preferred Stock equal to the number
of such Rights held by such holder multiplied by the Section 24(a)(i) Exchange
Ratio or Section 24(a)(ii) Exchange Ratio, as the case may be.  The Company
shall promptly give public notice of any such exchange; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that
the failure to give, or any defect in, such notice shall not affect the validity
of such exchange.  The Company promptly shall mail a notice of any such exchange
to all of the holders of such Rights at their last addresses as they appear upon
the registry books of the Rights Agent.  Any notice which is mailed in the
manner herein provided shall be deemed given, whether or not the holder receives
the notice.  Each such notice of exchange shall state the method by which the
exchange of Units of Preferred Stock for Rights will be effected and, in the
event of any partial exchange, the number of Rights which will be exchanged. 
Any partial exchange shall be effected pro rata based on the number of Rights
(other than Rights which have become void pursuant to Section 7(f)) held by each
holder of Rights.

          (c)  In the event that the number of shares of Preferred Stock which
are authorized by the Company's Certificate of Incorporation but not outstanding
or reserved for issuance for purposes other than upon exercise of the Rights are
not sufficient to permit any exchange of Rights as contemplated in accordance
with this Section 24, the Company shall take all such action as may be necessary
to authorize additional shares of Preferred Stock for issuance upon exchange of
the Rights or make adequate provision to substitute (1) cash, (2) Common Stock
or other equity securities of the Company, (3) debt securities of the Company,
(4) other assets or (5) any combination of the foregoing, having an aggregate
value equal to the Adjustment Spread, where such aggregate value has been
determined by the Board of Directors of the Company.

          (d)  The Company shall not be required to issue fractions of Units of
Preferred Stock or to distribute certificates which evidence fractional Units. 
In lieu of fractional Units, the Company may pay to the registered holders of
Right Certificates at the time such Rights are exchanged as herein provided an
amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the Current Market Price
(determined pursuant to Section 11(d)) of one Unit of Preferred Stock.

<PAGE>
                                      41



          SECTION 25.  NOTICE OF PROPOSED ACTIONS.  

          (a)  In case the Company, after the Distribution Date, shall
propose (i) to effect any of the transactions referred to in Section 11(a)(i) or
to pay any dividend to the holders of record of its Common Stock payable in
stock of any class or to make any other distribution to the holders of record of
its Common Stock (other than a regular periodic cash dividend), or (ii) to offer
to the holders of record of its Common Stock or options, warrants, or other
rights to subscribe for or to purchase shares of Common Stock (including any
security convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock) or shares of stock
of any class or any other securities, options, warrants, convertible or
exchangeable securities or other rights, or (iii) to effect any reclassification
of its Common Stock or any recapitalization or reorganization of the Company, or
(iv) to effect any consolidation or merger with or into, or to effect any sale
or other transfer (or to permit one or more of its Subsidiaries to effect any
sale or other transfer), in one or more transactions, of more than 50% of the
assets or earning power of the Company and its Subsidiaries (taken as a whole)
to, any other Person or Persons, or (v) to effect the liquidation, dissolution
or winding up of the Company, then, in each such case, the Company shall give to
each holder of record of a Right Certificate, in accordance with Section 26
hereof, notice of such proposed action, which shall specify the record date for
the purposes of such transaction referred to in Section 11(a)(i), or such
dividend or distribution, or the date on which such reclassification,
recapitalization, reorganization, consolidation, merger, sale or transfer of
assets, liquidation, dissolution or winding up is to take place and the record
date for determining participation therein by the holders of record of Common
Stock, if any such date is to be fixed, and such notice shall be so given in the
case of any action covered by clause (i) or (ii) above at least 10 days prior to
the record date for determining holders of record of the Common Stock for
purposes of such action, and in the case of such other action, at least 10 days
prior to the date of the taking of such proposed action or the date of
participation therein by the holders of record of Common Stock, whichever shall
be the earlier.

          (b)  In case any of the transactions referred to in Section 11(a)(ii)
or Section 13 of this Rights Agreement are proposed, then, in any such case, the
Company shall give to each holder of Rights, in accordance with Section 26
hereof, notice of the proposal of such transaction at least 10 days prior to
consummating such transaction, which notice shall specify the proposed event and
the consequences of the event to the holders of Rights under Section 11(a)(ii)
or Section 13 hereof, as the case may be, and, upon consummating such
transaction, shall similarly give notice thereof to each holder of Rights.

          (c)   The failure to give notice required by this Section 25 or any
defect therein shall not affect the legality or validity of the action taken by
the Company or the vote upon any such action.

<PAGE>
                                       42


          SECTION 26.  NOTICES.  Notices or demands authorized by the Rights 
Agreement to be given or made by the Rights Agent or by the holder of record 
of any Right Certificate or Right to or on behalf of the Company shall be 
sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail, postage prepaid, 
addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Rights Agent) 
as follows:

               Adobe Systems Incorporated
               345 Park Avenue
               San Jose, California  95110-2704 
               Attention:  General Counsel

Subject to the provisions of Section 21 hereof, any notice or demand authorized
by this Rights Agreement to be given or made by the Company or by the holder of
record of any Right Certificate or Right to or on behalf of the Rights Agent
shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by registered or certified mail,
addressed (until another address is filed in writing with the Company) as
follows (and shall be deemed given upon receipt at):

               Harris Trust Company of California
               311 West Monroe Street, 14th Floor
               Chicago, Illinois  60606
               Attention: Corporate Trust Department

Notices or demands authorized by this Rights Agreement to be given or made by
the Company of the Rights Agent to the holder of record of any Right Certificate
or Right shall be sufficiently given or made if sent by first-class mail,
postage prepaid, addressed to such holder at the address of such holder as it
appears upon the registry books of the Rights Agent or, prior to the
Distribution Date, on the registry books of the Transfer Agent.

          SECTION 27.  SUPPLEMENTS AND AMENDMENTS.  The Company and the Rights
Agent may from time to time supplement or amend this Agreement without approval
of any holders of Right Certificates in order (i) to cure any ambiguity, (ii) to
correct or supplement any provision contained herein which may be defective or
inconsistent with any other provision herein, (iii) prior to the Close of
Business on the tenth day following the Stock Acquisition Date and subject to
extension by the Board of Directors by amendment hereof, to change or supplement
any of the provisions herein which the Company may deem necessary or desirable,
or (iv) following the time at which the Board of Directors' right of redemption
under Section 23(a)(i) has expired, to amend or supplement the provisions
hereunder in any manner which the Company may deem necessary or desirable and
which shall not adversely affect the interests of the holders of Right
Certificates; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that this Agreement may not be amended or
supplemented pursuant to this clause (iv) to lengthen a time period relating to
when the Rights may be redeemed.  Upon delivery of a certificate from an
appropriate officer of the Company or,


<PAGE>
                                       43


so long as any Person is an Acquiring Person hereunder, from the Board of 
Directors of the Company which states that the proposed supplement or 
amendment is in compliance with the terms of this Section 27, the Rights 
Agent shall execute such supplement or amendment unless the Rights Agent 
shall have determined in good faith that such supplement or amendment would 
adversely affect its interests under this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything 
contained in this Rights Agreement to the contrary, no supplement or 
amendment shall be made which changes the Redemption Price.  Prior to the 
Distribution Date, the interests of the holders of Rights shall be deemed 
coincident with the interests of the holders of Common Stock.  
Notwithstanding anything in this Rights Agreement to the contrary, no 
supplement or amendment that changes the rights and duties of the Rights 
under this Rights Agreement will be effective against the Rights Agent 
without the execution of such supplement or amendment by the Rights Agent.

          SECTION 28.  SUCCESSORS.  All of the covenants and provisions of this
Rights Agreement by or for the benefit of the Company or the Rights Agent shall
bind and inure to the benefit of their respective successors and assigns
hereunder.

          SECTION 29.  DETERMINATIONS AND ACTIONS BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS,
ETC.  For all purposes of this Agreement, any calculation of the number of
shares of Common Stock outstanding at any particular time, including for
purposes of determining the particular percentage of such outstanding shares of
Common Stock of which any Person is the Beneficial Owner, shall be made in
accordance with the last sentence of Rule 13d-3(d)(1)(i) of the Exchange Act
Regulations as in effect on the date hereof.  The Board of Directors of the
Company shall have the exclusive power and authority to administer this
Agreement and to exercise all rights and powers specifically granted to the
Board of Directors of the Company or to the Company, or as may be necessary or
advisable in the administration of this Agreement, including, without
limitation, the right and power (a) to interpret the provisions of this
Agreement and (b) to make all determinations deemed necessary or advisable for
the administration of this Agreement.  All such actions, calculations,
interpretations and determinations (including, for purposes of clause (ii)
below, all omissions with respect to the foregoing) which are done or made by
the Board of Directors of the Company in good faith shall (i) be final,
conclusive and binding on the Company, the Rights Agent, the holders of the
Rights and all other parties, and (ii) not subject the Board of Directors of the
Company or any member thereof to any liability to the holders of the Rights.

          SECTION 30.  BENEFITS OF THIS RIGHTS AGREEMENT.  Nothing in this
Rights Agreement shall be construed to give to any person or corporation other
than the Company, the Rights Agent and the registered holders of the Right
Certificates (and, prior to the Distribution Date, the Common Stock) any legal
or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Rights Agreement; but this Rights
Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company, the Rights
Agent and the holders of record of the Right Certificates (and, prior to the
Distribution Date, the Common Stock).


<PAGE>
                                       44


          SECTION 31.  GOVERNING LAW.  This Rights Agreement and each Right
Certificate issued hereunder shall be deemed to be a contract made under the
laws of the State of Delaware (or the laws of the state of incorporation of any
successor of the Company) and for all purposes shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the laws of such state applicable to contracts to
be made solely by residents of such state and performed entirely within such
state.

          SECTION 32.  COUNTERPARTS.  This Rights Agreement may be executed in
any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes
be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute
but one and the same Instrument.

          SECTION 33.  DESCRIPTIVE HEADINGS.  Descriptive headings of the
several sections of this Rights Agreement are inserted for convenience only and
shall not control or affect the meaning or construction of any of the provisions
hereof.

          SECTION 34.  SEVERABILITY.  If any term, provision, covenant or
restriction of this Rights Agreement is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction or other authority to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the
remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Rights
Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected,
impaired or invalidated; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that notwithstanding anything in
this Agreement to the contrary, if any such term, provision, covenant or
restriction is held by such court or authority to be invalid, void or
unenforceable and the Board of Directors of the Company determines in its good
faith judgment that severing the invalid language from this Agreement would
adversely affect the purpose or effect of this Agreement and the Rights shall
not then be redeemable, the right of redemption set forth in Section 23 shall be
reinstated and shall not expire until the Close of Business on the tenth
Business Day following the date of such determination by the Board of Directors
of the Company.










<PAGE>
                                       45


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Rights 
Agreement to be duly amended and restated as of the day and year first above 
written.

[SEAL]

ATTEST:                                 ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED


By:  /s/ Manuela O. Salvador            By:  /s/ Colleen M. Pouliot
    --------------------------------       ----------------------------------
    Name:     Manuela O. Salvador           Name:     Colleen M. Pouliot
    Title:    Legal Secretary               Title:    Senior Vice President,
                                                       General Counsel and
                                                       Secretary


[SEAL]


ATTEST:                                 HARRIS TRUST
                                        COMPANY OF CALIFORNIA, as Rights Agent


By:  /s/ Donald W. Koslow               By:  /s/ Charles V. Zade
    --------------------------------       ----------------------------------
     Name:     Donald W. Koslow              Name:     Charles V. Zade
     Title:    Vice President                Title:    Vice President




<PAGE>



                                      EXHIBIT A

                             [Form of Right Certificate]


Certificate No._______                           _______________________ Rights


NOT EXERCISABLE AFTER JULY 23, 2000, OR EARLIER IF REDEEMED OR EXCHANGED.  AT 
THE OPTION OF THE COMPANY, THE RIGHTS MAY BE REDEEMED AT $.01 PER RIGHT OR 
EXCHANGED FOR UNITS OF PREFERRED STOCK ON THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THE RIGHTS 
AGREEMENT.  IN THE EVENT THAT THE RIGHTS REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE 
ISSUED TO A PERSON WHO IS AN ACQUIRING PERSON OR A TRANSFEREE OF THE RIGHTS 
PREVIOUSLY OWNED BY SUCH PERSONS, THIS RIGHT CERTIFICATE AND THE RIGHTS 
REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY BECOME NULL AND VOID IN THE CIRCUMSTANCES SPECIFIED IN 
SECTION 7(f) OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT AND MAY BE LIMITED AS PROVIDED IN 
SECTION 11(A)(II) AND SECTION 24 OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT.


                                 RIGHT CERTIFICATE

                             ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED


This certifies that                              , or registered assigns, is 
the registered owner of the number of Rights set forth above, each of which 
entitles the owner thereof, subject to the terms, provisions and conditions 
of the Third Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated as of December 15, 
1998 ("RIGHTS AGREEMENT") between Adobe Systems Incorporated, a Delaware 
corporation ("COMPANY"), and Harris Trust Company of California ("RIGHTS 
AGENT"), to purchase from the Company at any time after the Distribution Date 
(as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) and prior to 5:00 p.m. 
(California time) on July 23, 2000, at the office of the Rights Agents, or 
its successors as Rights Agent, designated for such purposes, one 
one-thousandth of a fully paid and nonassessable share of Series A Preferred 
Stock of the Company, par value $.0001 per share ("PREFERRED STOCK") at a 
purchase price of $115.00 per one-thousandth of a share (each such one 
one-thousandth of a share being a "UNIT") of Preferred Stock, as the same may 
from time to time after the date of the Rights Agreement be adjusted in 
accordance with the Rights Agreement ("PURCHASE PRICE"), upon presentation 
and surrender of this Right Certificate with the Form of Election to Purchase 
duly executed.

          As provided in the Rights Agreement, the Purchase Price and the number
of Units of Preferred Stock which may be purchased upon the exercise of the
Rights evidenced by this


                                       A-1
<PAGE>


Right Certificate are subject to modification and adjustment upon the 
happening of certain events, and, upon the happening of certain events, 
securities other than Units of Preferred Stock, or other property, may be 
acquired upon exercise of the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate, as 
provided by the Rights Agreement.

          This Right Certificate is subject to all of the terms, provisions and
conditions of the Rights Agreement, which terms, provisions and conditions are
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof and to which Rights
Agreement reference is hereby made for a full description of the rights,
limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Rights Agent,
the Company and the holders of record of the Right Certificates.  Copies of the
Rights Agreement are on file at the principal executive office of the Company.

          This Right Certificate, with or without other Right Certificates, upon
surrender at the corporate agency service center of the Rights Agent, may be
exchanged for another Right Certificate or Right Certificates of like tenor and
date evidencing Rights entitling the holder of record to purchase a like
aggregate number of shares of Common Stock as the Rights evidenced by the Right
Certificate or Right Certificates surrendered shall have entitled such holder to
purchase.  If this Right Certificate shall be exercised in part, the holder
shall be entitled to receive upon surrender hereof, another Right Certificate or
Right Certificates for the number of whole Rights not exercised.

          Subject to the provisions of the Rights Agreement, at any time prior
to the earlier of (i) the Close of Business on the tenth day following Stock
Acquisition Date and subject to extension by the Board of Directors by amendment
of the Rights Agreement or (ii) the Final Expiration Date, the Rights evidenced
by this Certificate may be redeemed by the Company at its option at a redemption
price of $.01 per Right if exchanged by the Company at its option in whole or in
part for Units of Preferred Stock.

          No fractional Units of Preferred Stock shall be issued upon the
exercise or exchange of any Right or Rights evidenced hereby, and in lieu
thereof, as provided in the Rights Agreement, fractions of Units Preferred Stock
shall receive an amount in cash equal to the same fraction of the then Current
Market Price (as such term is defined in the Rights Agreement) of Units of
Preferred Stock.

          No holder of this Right Certificate, as such, shall be entitled to
vote or receive dividends or be deemed for any purpose the holder of Preferred
Stock or of any other securities of the Company which may at any time be
issuable on the exercise hereof, nor shall anything contained in the Rights
Agreement or herein be construed to confer upon the holder hereof, as such, any
of the rights of a stockholder of the Company or any right to vote in the
election of directors; or upon any matter submitted to stockholders at any
meeting thereof, or to give or withhold consent to any corporate action or to
receive notice of meetings or other actions affecting stockholders (other than
certain actions specified in the Rights Agreement) or to receive


                                       A-2
<PAGE>


dividends or subscription rights, or otherwise, until the Right or Rights 
evidenced by this Right Certificate shall have been exercised or exchanged as 
provided in the Rights Agreement.

          This Right Certificate shall not be valid or obligatory for any
purpose until it shall have been countersigned by the Rights Agent.















                                       A-3


<PAGE>


          WITNESS the facsimile signature of the proper officers of the Company
and its corporate seal.  Dated as of              ,        .



ATTEST:                            Adobe Systems Incorporated


By:                                By:
   --------------------------         ---------------------------
     Secretary                               Title:



COUNTERSIGNED:

Harris Trust Company of California,
as Rights Agent

By:
   --------------------------------
     Authorized Signature









                                       A-4
<PAGE>




                     [Form of Reverse Side of Right Certificate]

                                  FORM OF ASSIGNMENT


                     (To be executed by the registered holder if
                         such holder desires to transfer the
                                 Right Certificate.)



FOR VALUE RECEIVED
hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto


(Please print name and address of transferee)

this Right Certificate, together with all right, title and interest therein, and
does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint             Attorney, to transfer
the within Right Certificate on the books of the within-named Company, with full
power of substitution.


Dated:               , 
      --------------   ----------



                         Signature


Signature Guaranteed:






                                       A-4
<PAGE>





                                     CERTIFICATE

          The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes
that:

          (1)  this Right Certificate [  ] is [  ] is not being sold, assigned
and transferred by or on behalf of a Person who is or was an Acquiring Person or
an Affiliate or Associate of any such Acquiring Person (as such terms are
defined pursuant to the Rights Agreement); and

          (2)  after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned,
it [  ] did [  ] did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate
from any Person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate of an Acquiring Person.


Dated:               ,
      --------------         -------------------------------
                                        Signature

Signature Guaranteed:

                     ---------------------------------------

                                        NOTICE

          The signature to the foregoing Assignment and Certificate must
correspond to the name as written upon the face of this Right Certificate in
every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.

          Signatures must be guaranteed by an approved eligible financial
institution acceptable to the Rights Agent in its sole discretion.

          In the event the certification set forth above is not completed, the
Company will deem the beneficial owner of the Rights evidenced by this Right
Certificate to be an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate thereof (as
defined in the Rights Agreement) and, in the case of an Assignment, will affix a
legend to that effect on any Right Certificates issued in exchange for this
Right Certificate.


                                       A-5
<PAGE>


                             FORM OF ELECTION TO PURCHASE

                       (To be executed if the registered holder
                        desires to exercise Rights represented
                              by the Right Certificate.)



To:  Adobe Systems Incorporated

          The undersigned hereby irrevocably elects to exercise
Rights represented by this Right Certificate to purchase the Units of Preferred
Stock issuable upon the exercise of the Rights (or such other securities of the
Company or of any other person or other property which may be issuable upon the
exercise of the Rights) and requests that certificates for such Units be issued
in the name of and delivered to:


(Please print name and address)


Please insert social security
or other identifying number:
                            -------------

          If such number of Rights shall not be all the Rights evidenced by this
Right Certificate, a new Right Certificate for the balance of such Rights shall
be registered in the name of and delivered to:


(Please print name and address)


Please insert social security
or other identifying number:
                            -------------

Dated:               ,
      --------------  --------      --------------------------
                                           Signature


                                       A-6
<PAGE>




Signature Guaranteed:













                                       A-7
<PAGE>


                                     CERTIFICATE

          The undersigned hereby certifies by checking the appropriate boxes
that:

          (1)  the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate [  ] are [  ] are
not beneficially owned by an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or an Associate
thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement); and

          (2)  after due inquiry and to the best knowledge of the undersigned,
the undersigned 
[  ] did [  ] did not acquire the Rights evidenced by this Right Certificate
from any person who is, was or subsequently became an Acquiring Person or an
Affiliate or Associate thereof.


Dated:               ,
      --------------  -------        --------------------------
                                             Signature
Signature Guaranteed:
                     ------------------------------------------

                                    NOTICE

          The signature in the foregoing Election to Purchase and Certificate 
must conform to the name as written upon the face of this Right Certificate 
in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change 
whatsoever.

          Signatures must be guaranteed by an approved eligible financial 
institution acceptable to the Rights Agent in its sole discretion.

          In the event the certification set forth above is not completed, 
the Company will deem the beneficial owner of the Rights evidenced by this 
Right Certificate to be an Acquiring Person or an Affiliate or Associate 
thereof (as defined in the Rights Agreement) and, in the case of an 
Assignment, will affix a legend to that effect on any Right Certificates 
issued in exchange for this Right Certificate.


                                       A-8


<PAGE>

                                      EXHIBIT B

                              ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED

                                 Summary of Terms of 
                                   Rights Agreement

<TABLE>
<S>                      <C>
Nature of Right:         When exercisable, each Right (a "RIGHT") will initially
                         entitle the holder to purchase one one-thousandth of a
                         share (a "UNIT") of the Preferred Stock ("PREFERRED
                         STOCK") of Adobe Systems Incorporated (the "COMPANY").

Means of Distribution:   The Rights will be distributed to holders of the
                         Company's outstanding Common Stock as a dividend of one
                         Right for each share of Common Stock.  The Rights will
                         also be attached to all future issuances of Common
                         Stock prior to the Distribution Date (as defined
                         below).

Exercisability:          Rights become exercisable on the earlier of:  (i) the
                         Close of Business on the tenth day following a public
                         announcement by the Company or any person or group (an
                         "ACQUIRING PERSON") that such person or group has
                         acquired, without the approval of the Board of
                         Directors, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of the
                         Company's outstanding Common Stock, or (ii) the tenth
                         business day (unless extended by the Board of Directors
                         prior to the time a person becomes an Acquiring Person)
                         following the commencement, or announcement of an
                         intention to commence, by any person or group, of a
                         tender offer which would result in such person owning
                         15% or more of the outstanding Common Stock of the
                         Company (the earlier of such dates is referred to as
                         the "DISTRIBUTION DATE").  Rights may be traded
                         separately from the Common Stock once the Rights become
                         exercisable.

Exercise Price:          $115.00 per share, which is the amount that in the
                         judgment of the Board of Directors represents the long-
                         term value of the Common Stock (the "EXERCISE PRICE").

Term:                    The Rights will expire ten years after the date of
                         issuance, or July 23, 2000, unless earlier redeemed by
                         the Company as described below.


                                       B-1
<PAGE>


Redemption of Rights:    Rights are redeemable at a price of $0.01 per Right, by
                         the vote of the Company's Board of Directors, at any
                         time until the Close of Business on the tenth day
                         following the date on which a person has become an
                         Acquiring Person (the "STOCK ACQUISITION DATE").  After
                         the Stock Acquisition Date, Rights are also redeemable
                         prior to any business combination in which all holders
                         of Common Stock are treated alike and not involving
                         (except as a holder of Common Stock treated like all
                         other holders) an Acquiring Person.

Rights in Event          If the Company is acquired by any person in a merger or
of Business              other business combination transaction or 50% or more
Combination:             of its assets or earnings powers are sold to any person
                         after the Distribution Date, each holder of a Right
                         shall thereafter have the right to purchase, upon
                         payment of the then current Exercise Price, such number
                         of shares of common stock of the acquiring company
                         having a current market value equal to twice the
                         Exercise Price.

Rights in Event of       In the event that an Acquiring Person engages in
Self-Dealing             certain self-dealing transactions with the Company, or
Transaction or           a person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of
Acquisition of           the outstanding Common Stock, each holder of a Right
Substantial Amount of    thereafter has the right to purchase, upon payment of
Common Stock (a "FLIP-   the then current Exercise Price, such number of Units
IN EVENT"):              of Preferred Stock having a market value at the time of
                         the transaction equal to twice the Exercise Price.  If
                         insufficient authorized but unissued shares of
                         Preferred Stock are available for issuance, the Company
                         must deliver all the available shares of Preferred
                         Stock and an amount of cash or other property of the
                         Company, so that the aggregate value received is equal
                         to twice the Exercise Price.  Rights held by the
                         Acquiring Person will not be entitled to the benefit of
                         such an adjustment.

                         Self-dealing transactions are defined to include a
                         merger of an Acquiring Person into the Company in which
                         the Common Stock remains outstanding and unchanged, the
                         issuance of securities of the Company to an Acquiring
                         Person, the transfer of assets to an Acquiring Person
                         on other than an arm's length basis, compensation to an


                                       B-2
<PAGE>


                         Acquiring Person on a basis inconsistent with the
                         Company's past practice, a loan or provision of other
                         financial assistance (except proportionately as a
                         stockholder) to an Acquiring Person or the licensing,
                         sale or other transfer of proprietary technology or
                         know-how from the Company to the Acquiring Person on
                         terms not approved by the Board of Directors.

Exchange Option:         In the event any person or group becomes an Acquiring
                         Person, the Board of Directors may require all or any
                         portion of the outstanding Rights to be exchanged for
                         (i) one Unit of Preferred Stock or (ii) such number of
                         Units of Preferred Stock as will equal (x) the
                         difference between the aggregate market price of the
                         number of Units to be received upon a Flip-In Event and
                         the purchase price set forth in the Rights Agreement,
                         divided by (y) the market price per Unit of Preferred
                         Stock upon the Flip-In Event.  However, any rights held
                         by an Acquiring Person would not be entitled to
                         participate in this exchange.

Fractional Shares:       No fractional Units of Preferred Stock will be issued
                         upon exercise of the Rights and, in lieu thereof, a
                         payment in cash will be made to the holder of such
                         Rights equal to the same fraction of the current market
                         value of a Unit of Preferred Stock.

Adjustment:              The Exercise Price payable, and the number of Units of
                         Preferred Stock or other securities or property
                         issuable, upon exercise of the Rights are subject to
                         adjustment from time to time to prevent dilution (i) in
                         the event of a stock dividend on, or a subdivision,
                         combination or reclassification of, the Preferred
                         Stock, (ii) upon the grant to holders of the Preferred
                         Stock or convertible securities at less than the
                         current market price of the Preferred Stock or (iii)
                         upon the distribution to holders of the Preferred Stock
                         of evidences of indebtedness or assets (excluding
                         dividends payable in Preferred Stock) or of
                         subscription rights or warrants (other than those
                         referred to above).

Voting Power of          The Rights themselves do not entitle the holder thereof
Rights:                  to any voting rights.


                                       B-3
<PAGE>


Amendment of Rights:     Until the Distribution Date, the Company may, except
                         with respect to the redemption price, amend the Rights
                         in any manner (including an amendment that provides
                         that the Rights shall become exercisable for shares or
                         fractions of shares of preferred stock that are
                         economically common stock equivalents).  After the
                         Distribution Date, the Company may amend the Rights in
                         any manner that does not adversely affect the interests
                         of the holders of the Rights.
</TABLE>


A COPY OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT IS AVAILABLE, FREE OF CHARGE, FROM THE COMPANY,
345 PARK AVENUE, SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA, 95110-2704, ATTENTION:  GENERAL COUNSEL. 
THIS SUMMARY DESCRIPTION OF THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT DOES NOT PURPORT TO BE COMPLETE
AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT WHICH IS
INCORPORATED IN THIS SUMMARY DESCRIPTION BY REFERENCE.
















                                       B-4
<PAGE>



                                     EXHIBIT C

                             CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION
                         OF THE VOTING POWERS, DESIGNATION,
                      PREFERENCES AND RELATIVE, PARTICIPATING,
                OPTIONAL OR OTHER SPECIAL RIGHTS AND QUALIFICATIONS,
                        LIMITATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS OF THE
                              SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK

                                -------------------

                           Pursuant to Section 151 of the
                             General Corporation Law of
                               the State of Delaware

                                -------------------

          I, John E. Warnock, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of Adobe Systems Incorporated, a corporation organized and existing under the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "CORPORATION"), DO HEREBY
CERTIFY:

          that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of
the Corporation by its Certificate of Incorporation (the "CERTIFICATE"), and,
pursuant to the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware, said Board of Directors, at a duly called meeting held on
July 30, 1997, at which a quorum was present and acted throughout, adopted the
following resolutions, which resolutions remain in full force and effect on the
date hereof creating a series of 100,000 shares of Preferred Stock having a par
value of $.0001 per share, designated as Series A Preferred Stock (the "SERIES A
PREFERRED STOCK") out of the class of 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock of the
par value of $.0001 per share (the "PREFERRED STOCK"):

          RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of
Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate, the Board of
Directors does hereby create, authorize and provide for the issuance of the
Series A Preferred Stock having the voting powers, designation, relative,
participating, optional and other special rights, preferences, and
qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof that are set forth as
follows:

          Section 1.  DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT.  The shares of such series shall
be designated as "SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK" and the number of shares
constituting such series shall be 100,000.


                                       C-1
<PAGE>


          Section 2.  DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS.  (A)  Subject to the prior 
and superior rights of the holders of any shares of any other series of 
Preferred Stock or any other shares of preferred stock of the Corporation 
ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock with 
respect to dividends, each holder of one one-thousandth (1/1,000) of a share 
(a "UNIT") of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as 
and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for 
that purpose, (i) quarterly dividends payable in cash on the last day of 
March, June, September and December in each year (each such date being a 
"QUARTERLY DIVIDEND PAYMENT DATE"), commencing on the first Quarterly 
Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of such Unit of Series A 
Preferred Stock, in an amount per Unit (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to 
the greater of (a) $.01 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment 
hereinafter set forth, the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends 
declared on shares of the Common Stock since the immediately preceding 
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly 
Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of a Unit of Series A 
Preferred Stock, and (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter 
set forth, quarterly distributions (payable in kind) on each Quarterly 
Dividend Payment Date in an amount per Unit equal to the aggregate per share 
amount of all non-cash dividends or other distributions (other than a 
dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the 
outstanding shares of Common Stock, by reclassification or otherwise) 
declared on shares of Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly 
Dividend Payment Date, or with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend 
Payment Date, since the first issuance of a Unit of Series A Preferred Stock. 
In the event that the Corporation shall at any time after July 11, 1990 (the 
"RIGHTS DECLARATION DATE") (i) declare any dividend on outstanding shares of 
Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide outstanding 
shares of Common Stock or (iii) combine outstanding shares of Common Stock 
into a smaller number of shares, then, in each such case, the amount to which 
the holder of a Unit of Series A Preferred Stock was entitled immediately 
prior to such event pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by 
multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the 
number of shares of Common Stock that are outstanding immediately after such 
event and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common 
Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

          (B)  The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on Units
of Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) above immediately after
it declares a dividend or distribution on the shares of Common Stock (other than
a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that, in the
event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock
during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next
subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $.01 per Unit on the
Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.

          (C)  Dividends shall begin to accrue and shall be cumulative on each
outstanding Unit of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment
Date next


                                       C-2
<PAGE>


preceding the date of issuance of such Unit of Series A Preferred Stock, 
unless the date of issuance of such Unit is prior to the record date for the 
first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such Unit 
shall begin to accrue from the date of issuance of such Unit, or unless the 
date of issuance is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the 
record date for the determination of holders of Units of Series A Preferred 
Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly 
Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin 
to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.  
Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  Dividends paid on 
Units of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the aggregate amount 
of all such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such Units shall be 
allocated pro rata on a unit-by-unit basis among all Units of Series A 
Preferred Stock at the time outstanding.  The Board of Directors may fix a 
record date for the determination of holders of Units of Series A Preferred 
Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared 
thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30 days prior to the date 
fixed for the payment thereof.

          Section 3.  VOTING RIGHTS.  The holders of Units of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have the following voting rights:

     (A)  Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each
Unit of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one vote on
all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation.  In the
event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i)
declare any dividend on outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in shares of
Common Stock, (ii) subdivide outstanding shares of Common Stock or (iii) combine
the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in
each such case the number of votes per Unit to which holders of Units of Series
A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be
adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which shall
be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event
and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock that
were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

     (B)  Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of Units of
Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote
together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the
Corporation.

     (C)  (i)  If at any time dividends on any Units of Series A Preferred Stock
shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, then
during the period (a "DEFAULT PERIOD") from the occurrence of such event until
such time as all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly
dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all Units of
Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or
set apart for payment, all holders of Units of Series A Preferred Stock, voting
separately as a class, shall have the right to elect two Directors.


                                       C-3
<PAGE>


     (ii)   During any default period, such voting rights of the holders of 
Units of Series A Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special 
meeting called pursuant to subparagraph (iii) of this Section 3(C) or at any 
annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of 
stockholders, provided that neither such voting rights nor any right of the 
holders of Units of Series A Preferred Stock to increase, in certain cases, 
the authorized number of Directors may be exercised at any meeting unless 
one-third of the outstanding Units of Preferred Stock shall be present at 
such meeting in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of the holders of 
Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by the holders of Units of Series 
A Preferred Stock of such rights.  At any meeting at which the holders of 
Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall exercise such voting rights initially 
during an existing default period, they shall have the right, voting 
separately as a class, to elect Directors to fill up to two vacancies in the 
Board of Directors, if any such vacancies may then exist, or, if such right 
is exercised at an annual meeting, to elect two Directors.  If the number 
which may be so elected at any special meeting does not amount to the 
required number, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall have the 
right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary 
to permit the election by them of the required number.  After the holders of 
Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect 
Directors during any default period, the number of Directors shall not be 
increased or decreased except as approved by a vote of the holders of Units 
of Series A Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of 
any equity securities ranking senior to the Series A Preferred Stock.

     (iii)  Unless the holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall, during an
existing default period, have previously exercised their right to elect
Directors, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders
owning in the aggregate not less than 25% of the total number of the Units of
Series A Preferred Stock outstanding may request, the calling of a special
meeting of the holders of Units of Series A Preferred Stock, which meeting shall
thereupon be called by the Secretary of the Corporation.  Notice of such meeting
and of any annual meeting at which holders of Units of Series A Preferred Stock
are entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (C)(iii) shall be given to each
holder of record of Units of Series A Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such
notice to him at his last address as the same appears on the books of the
Corporation.  Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days
and not later then 60 days after such order or request or in default of the
calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting
may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate not less than 25% of the total number of outstanding Units of Series A
Preferred Stock.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (C)(iii), no
such special meeting shall be called during the 60 days immediately preceding
the date fixed for the next annual meeting of the stockholders.

     (iv)   During any default period, the holders of shares of Common Stock and
Units of Series A Preferred Stock, and other classes or series of stock of the
Corporation, if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect all the
Directors until holders of the Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall have
exercised their right to elect two Directors voting as a separate class,


                                       C-4
<PAGE>


after the exercise of which right (x) the Directors so elected by the holders 
of Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their 
successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of 
the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except 
as provided in paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3) be filled by vote of a 
majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the 
class of capital stock which elected the Director whose office shall have 
become vacant. References in this paragraph (C) to Directors elected by the 
holders of a particular class of capital stock shall include Directors 
elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the 
foregoing sentence.

     (v)   Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of
the holders of Units of Series A Preferred Stock as a separate class to elect
Directors shall cease, (y) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of
Units of Series A Preferred Stock as a separate class shall terminate, and (z)
the number of Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the
Certificate or by-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (C)(ii) of this Section 3 (such number being subject,
however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in the
Certificate or by-laws).  Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by
the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by
a majority of the remaining Directors.

     (vi)  The provisions of this paragraph (C) shall govern the election of
Directors by holders of Units of Preferred Stock during any default period
notwithstanding any provisions of the Certificate to the contrary, including,
without limitation, the provisions of Article V of the Certificate.

          (D)  Except as set forth herein, holders of Units of Series A
Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consents shall not
be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of
shares of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.

          Section 4.  CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.  (A)  Whenever quarterly dividends
or other dividends or distributions payable on Units of Series A Preferred Stock
as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and
unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on outstanding
Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, the Corporation
shall not

          (i)  declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on,
     or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of
     junior stock;

          (ii)  declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on
     any shares of parity stock, except dividends paid ratably on Units of
     Series A Preferred Stock and shares of all such parity stock on which
     dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion


                                       C-5
<PAGE>


     to the total amounts to which the holders of such Units and all such 
     shares are then entitled;

          (iii)  redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration
     shares of any parity stock; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Corporation may at
     any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity
     stock in exchange for shares of any junior stock;

          (iv)   purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any Units of
     Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made
     in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to
     all holders of such Units.

          (B)    The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the
Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of
stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (A) of
this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in
such manner.

          Section 5.  REACQUIRED SHARES.  Any Units of Series A Preferred Stock
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever
shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof.  All such
Units shall, upon their cancellation, become authorized but unissued Units of
Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock
to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to
the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.

          Section 6.  LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP.  (A)  Upon any
voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation, no distribution shall be made (i) to the holders of shares of
junior stock unless the holders of Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall have
received, subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided in paragraph (B), the
greater of either (a) $.01 per Unit plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid
dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not earned or declared, to the
date of such payment, or (b) the amount equal to the aggregate per share amount
to be distributed to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (ii) to the holders
of shares of parity stock, unless simultaneously therewith distributions are
made ratably on Units of Series A Preferred Stock and all other shares of such
parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of Units of
Series A Preferred Stock are entitled under clause (i)(a) of this sentence and
to which the holders of shares of such parity stock are entitled, in each case
upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up.

          (B)    In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the
Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on outstanding shares of Common
Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide outstanding shares of
Common Stock, or (iii) combine outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller
number of shares, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders
of Units of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled


                                       C-6
<PAGE>


immediately prior to such event pursuant to clause (i)(b) of paragraph (A) of 
this Section 6 shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the 
numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock that are 
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which shall 
be the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately 
prior to such event.

          Section 7.  CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC.  In case the Corporation shall
enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which
the shares of common stock are exchanged for or converted into other stock or
securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case Units of
Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged for or
converted into an amount per Unit (subject to the provision for adjustment
hereinafter set forth) equal to the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash
and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or
for which each share of Common Stock is converted or exchanged.  In the event
the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare
any dividend on outstanding shares of Common Stock payable in shares of Common
Stock, (ii) subdivide outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine
outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case
the amount set forth in the immediately preceding sentence with respect to the
exchange or conversion of Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by
multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the number
of shares of Common Stock that are outstanding immediately after such event and
the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock that were
outstanding immediately prior to such event.

          Section 8.  REDEMPTION.  The Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall
not be redeemable.

          Section 9.  RANKING.  The Units of Series A Preferred Stock shall rank
junior to all other series of the Preferred Stock and to any other class of
preferred stock that hereafter may be issued by the Corporation as to the
payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any
such series or class shall provide otherwise.

          Section 10.  AMENDMENT.  The Certificate, including, without
limitation, this resolution, shall not hereafter be amended, either directly or
indirectly, or through merger or consolidation with another corporations in any
manner that would alter or change the powers, preferences or special rights of
the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority or more of the outstanding Units
of Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.

          Section 11.  FRACTIONAL SHARES.  The Series A Preferred Stock may be
issued in Units or other fractions of a share, which Units or fractions shall
entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to
exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to
have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.


                                       C-7
<PAGE>


          Section 12.  CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.  As used herein with respect to the
Series A Preferred Stock, the following terms shall have the following meanings:

          (A)    The term "COMMON STOCK" shall mean the class of stock
designated as the common stock, par value $.0001 per share, of the Corporation
at the date hereof or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes
or reclassification of such common stock.

          (B)    The term "JUNIOR STOCK" (i) as used in Section 4, shall mean
the Common Stock and any other class or series of capital stock of the
Corporation hereafter authorized or issued over which the Series A Preferred
Stock has preference or priority as to the payment of dividends and (ii) as used
in Section 6, shall mean the Common Stock and any other class or series of
capital stock of the Corporation over which the Series A Preferred Stock has
preference or priority in the distribution of assets on any liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.

          (C)    The term "PARITY STOCK" (i) as used in Section 4, shall mean
any class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized or issued
ranking PARI PASSU with the Series A Preferred Stock as to the payment of
dividends and (ii) as used in Section 6, shall mean any class or series of
capital stock ranking PARI PASSU with the Series A Preferred Stock in the
distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Corporation.
















                                       C-8
<PAGE>


          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Adobe Systems Incorporated has caused this
Certificate to be signed by its Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer and attested by its Secretary this      day of August, 1997.

                                   ADOBE SYSTEMS INCORPORATED



                                   By:
                                      ----------------------------------
                                       Name:  John E. Warnock
                                       Title: Chairman of the Board and 
                                              Chief Executive Officer




Attest:













                                       C-9

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
