-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 U7V2Sbi30gp+qFzHwURm+0tCt0yoOvPLG8ounavV+F1I5bWX8wPyAziWJSujnOiP
 czg8D2Ceiyj31E/RkPQIvA==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950135-98-000301.txt : 19980129
<SEC-HEADER>0000950135-98-000301.hdr.sgml : 19980129
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950135-98-000301
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		14
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19971101
FILED AS OF DATE:		19980128
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ANALOG DEVICES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000006281
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES [3674]
		IRS NUMBER:				042348234
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1031

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-07819
		FILM NUMBER:		98515206

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY
		CITY:			NORWOOD
		STATE:			MA
		ZIP:			02062
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6173294700
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>ANALOG DEVICES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K
  (MARK ONE)
     [X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997

                                       OR

     [ ]    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (D) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

        FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM_______________ TO ________________

                           COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-7819

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

      MASSACHUSETTS                                     04-2348234
(State or other jurisdiction of                      (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                       Identification No.)

    ONE TECHNOLOGY WAY, NORWOOD, MA                     02062-9106
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

                                 (781) 329-4700
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
                             ----------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (B) OF THE ACT:

COMMON STOCK $.16 2/3 PAR VALUE                 NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
     Title of Each Class              Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant
was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES X  NO

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant was approximately $4,395,116,408 based on the closing price of
the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape reporting system
on December 31, 1997.

     As of December 31, 1997, there were 162,201,029 shares of $.16 2/3 par
value Common Stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

    DOCUMENT DESCRIPTION                                   10-K PART
    --------------------                                   ---------
Portions of Annual Report to 
   Shareholders for the fiscal year
   ended November 1, 1997                                   I and II
Portions of the Registrant's Proxy 
   Statement for the Annual Meeting 
   of Stockholders to be held March 10, 1998                  III

================================================================================


<PAGE>   2


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's principal products include
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs") and
system-level ICs. The latter group includes general-purpose digital signal
processing ICs ("DSPs") and application-specific devices that typically
incorporate analog and mixed-signal circuitry and a DSP core.

Nearly all of Analog's products are components, which are typically incorporated
by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in a wide range of equipment and
systems for use in communications, computer, industrial, instrumentation,
military/aerospace, automotive and high-performance consumer electronics
applications.

The Company sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force,
third-party industrial distributors and independent sales representatives.
Approximately 46% of fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from customers in North
America, while most of the balance was derived from customers in Western Europe
and the Far East.

Analog is headquartered near Boston in Norwood, Massachusetts, and has
manufacturing facilities in Massachusetts, California, North Carolina, Ireland,
the Philippines and Taiwan. Founded in 1965, Analog employs approximately 7,500
persons worldwide.

INDUSTRY BACKGROUND

Real-world phenomena, such as temperature, pressure, sound, images, speed,
acceleration, position and rotation angle, are inherently analog in nature,
consisting of continuously varying information. This information can be detected
and measured using analog sensors, which represent real-world phenomena by
generating continuously varying voltages and currents. The signals from these
sensors are initially processed using analog methods, such as amplification,
filtering and shaping. They are then usually converted to digital form for input
to a microprocessor, which is used to manipulate, store or display the
information. In many cases the signals are further processed after conversion to
digital form using a technology called "digital signal processing," or DSP. In
addition, digital signals are frequently converted to analog form to provide
signals for analog display, sound, or control functions. These manipulations and
transformations are known collectively as "real-world signal processing."

Significant advances in semiconductor technology over the past 10 to 15 years
have led to substantial increases in the performance and functionality of ICs
used in signal processing applications. These advances include the ability to
create VLSI (Very Large Scale Integration) mixed-signal ICs that contain both
high-performance analog circuitry and large amounts of high-density digital
circuitry. The analog circuitry portion of the IC is used for manipulating
real-world signals while still in analog form and for converting analog signals
into digital form (or vice versa), and the digital portion is used for further
processing analog signals subsequent to their conversion to digital form. The
ICs resulting from these advances are used as components in equipment and
systems to achieve higher performance and more efficient signal processing.

PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications. Analog's products can be divided into
three classifications: Standard Linear ICs, system-level ICs and assembled
products.

A substantial portion of the Company's products are proprietary, while
equivalents to most of its other products are available from a limited number of
other suppliers.

                                       1
<PAGE>   3



SLICS

SLIC products have been the foundation of the Company's business for more than
20 years, and Analog believes it is one of the world's largest SLIC suppliers.
During 1997, 1996 and 1995, SLIC sales represented 61%, 57% and 64%,
respectively, of the Company's total sales. The Company's SLICs are primarily
high-performance, single-function devices. The majority of the Company's SLIC
product revenue is attributable to sales of data converters (analog-to-digital
and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. Other SLIC products offered by the
Company include analog signal-processing devices (such as analog multipliers),
voltage references and comparators. Over the past few years the Company has been
expanding its SLIC product offerings into product areas where its focus was
previously limited, principally interface circuits and power management ICs. It
is also expanding its SLIC product line to include a much larger number of
products designed to operate from single-supply 3 or 5 volt power sources to
better meet the needs of customers designing portable, battery-operated
equipment.

Analog's SLIC products tend to be general purpose in nature, which allows
customers to incorporate them in a wide variety of equipment and systems.
Analog's product portfolio includes several hundred SLICs, any one of which can
have as many as several hundred customers. SLICs typically have long product
life cycles. The Company's SLIC customers include both OEMs and customers who
build equipment for their own use. Historically, most SLICs have been purchased
by OEMs which serve the instrumentation, industrial and military/aerospace
markets, but they are now also being used for applications in communications,
computers, camcorders, scanners, automatic test equipment, imaging and other
consumer applications requiring high-performance real-world signal processing.

By using standard, high-performance, readily available, off-the-shelf components
in their designs, Analog's customers can reduce the time required to develop and
bring new products to market. Given the high cost of developing customized ICs,
SLICs usually provide the most cost-effective solutions for low to medium volume
applications. In addition, combinations of SLICs connected together on a printed
circuit board can provide functionality not currently achievable using a single
IC.

SYSTEM-LEVEL ICS

Analog's system-level ICs include general-purpose DSP ICs and multi-function
devices that feature high levels of functional integration on a single chip.
During 1997, 1996 and 1995, sales of these products represented 35%, 38% and
28%, respectively, of the Company's total sales.

The Company's general-purpose DSP ICs are designed to efficiently execute
specialized programs (algorithms) associated with processing digitized
real-time, real-world data. General-purpose DSP IC customers typically write
their own algorithms using software tools provided by the Company and software
tools obtained from third-party suppliers. All of these devices share a common
architecture and code compatibility, which allows system designers to address
cost, performance and time-to-market constraints. Analog supports these products
with specialized applications and easy-to-use, low-cost design tools, which
reduce product development costs and time to market.

Most of Analog's system-level ICs, other than its general-purpose DSPs, are
mixed-signal devices some of which include a DSP core. The balance are
linear-only devices. These devices are nearly always designed to meet the
requirements of a specific application, and the design process often includes
significant input from one or more potential key customers. Market demand for
these types of devices is driven by the benefits that result from combining a
number of functions on a single circuit, as opposed to a combination of SLICs
and other ICs. These benefits include higher performance, lower cost per
function, smaller size, lower weight, fewer parts and decreased power
consumption. These products allow Analog's customers to design smaller, lighter,
higher performance, more power-efficient and lower cost end products. The
Company believes that these benefits are becoming more important to the
Company's OEM customers as they increase their focus on high-performance, small,
lightweight products, many of which are battery powered.

                                       2
<PAGE>   4



ASSEMBLED PRODUCTS

The Company's assembled products include multi-chip modules ("MCMs"), hybrids
and printed-board modules. A MCM is a device made up of several IC chips
assembled in an automated fashion in a multilayer package that provides high
interconnect density at low cost. A hybrid consists of several chips and
discrete components mounted and wired together on a substrate, which is then
enclosed in a package. A printed-board module consists of surface-mount
components assembled on a small printed board that is then encapsulated in a
small plastic case.

Revenues from this product group have been declining for several years,
primarily because hybrids have been replaced in many new designs with smaller,
lower-cost monolithic ICs that offer higher levels of performance and
integration at lower cost. During 1997, 1996 and 1995, sales of these products
represented 4%, 5% and 8%, respectively, of the Company's total sales.

MARKETS AND APPLICATIONS

The Company's products are sold primarily to OEMs for incorporation into
equipment, instruments and systems sold to end users for a wide variety of
applications, including engineering; medical and scientific instruments;
industrial equipment; communications equipment; computers and computer
peripherals; military/aerospace equipment; high-end consumer electronics
products and automotive products. The Company's growth has been aided both by
the expansion of these markets and the increasing need for high-performance
real-time signal processing.

Listed below are some of the characteristics of each of the Company's major
markets:

INSTRUMENTATION--includes engineering, medical and scientific instruments. These
products are usually designed using the highest performance SLICs available,
where production volumes generally do not warrant custom or application-specific
ICs.

INDUSTRIAL--includes data acquisition systems, automatic process control
systems, robotics, environmental control systems and automatic test equipment
("ATE"). These products generally require ICs that offer performance greater
than that available from commodity-level ICs, but generally do not have
production volumes that warrant custom or application-specific ICs. Combinations
of SLICs are therefore usually employed to achieve the necessary functionality,
except in ATE applications where the high level of electronic circuitry required
per tester has created opportunities for the design of system-level ICs for this
application.

COMMUNICATIONS--includes data and fax modems, digital cellular telephones and
portable, wireless communication base station equipment and broadband wired
applications. The need for ever higher speed, coupled with more reliable, more
bandwidth-efficient communications is creating increasing demand for systems
that include both digital and analog signal processing capability. Demand for
signal processing ICs for this market is also being driven by the equipment
manufacturers' need for components that enable them to develop cost-effective
products that feature high performance, small size, low weight and minimal power
consumption.

COMPUTERS AND COMPUTER PERIPHERALS--includes high-performance personal
computers, workstations and peripheral devices such as hard disk drives and
scanners. The Company currently supplies a variety of ICs used in this market
for functions such as graphic displays; interfaces between PCs and peripherals
such as modems and printers; power and battery management; and enhanced sound
input and output capability for business and entertainment applications.

MILITARY/AEROSPACE--includes military, commercial avionics and space markets,
all of which require high-performance ICs that meet rigorous environmental and
reliability specifications. Nearly all of the Company's SLICs can be supplied in
versions that meet appropriate military standards. In addition, many products
can be supplied to meet the standards required for broadcast satellites and
other commercial space applications. Most of the Company's products sold in this
market are derived from standard commercial grade ICs, although the Company
sometimes develops products expressly for military/aerospace applications.

                                       3
<PAGE>   5



CONSUMER ELECTRONICS--The emergence of high-performance consumer products, such
as compact disc players, DVD players and digital camcorders, has led to the need
for high-performance system-level ICs with a high level of functionality.
Although the Company's revenue from this market has not been significant, the
Company has begun supplying ICs for sophisticated products used by consumers for
computing, communications and entertainment applications, and believes that many
of these applications will involve digital signal processing.

AUTOMOTIVE--Although the automotive market has historically been served with
low-cost, low-performance ICs, demand has emerged for higher performance devices
for a wide range of applications. In response, Analog is developing products
specifically for the automotive market. The Company is supplying a micromachined
IC used as a crash sensor in airbag systems, which serves as an alternative to
an electromechanical sensor. The Company anticipates that other micromachined
devices derived from this product may be suitable for other automotive
applications, such as anti-lock brakes and "smart" suspension systems.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The markets served by Analog are characterized by rapid technological changes
and advances. Accordingly, the Company makes substantial investments in the
design and development of new products and processes, and for significant
improvement of existing products and processes. Analog spent $196 million during
fiscal 1997 on the design, development and improvement of new and existing
products and processes, compared to $178 million during fiscal 1996 and $134
million during fiscal 1995.

In support of its research and development activities, the Company employs
several hundred engineers involved in product and process development at several
design centers and manufacturing sites located throughout the world.

As of November 1, 1997, the Company owned 486 U.S. patents and had 168 patent
applications on file with the United States patent office. The Company believes
that while its patents may provide some advantage, its competitive position is
largely determined by such factors as the knowledge, ability and experience of
the Company's personnel, new product development, market recognition and ongoing
marketing efforts, customer service and technical support.

SALES CHANNELS

Analog sells its products in both North America and internationally through a
direct sales force, third-party distributors and independent sales
representatives. Approximately 46% of fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from
customers in North America. As of December 1, 1997, the Company had 13 sales
offices in the United States, and its third-party distribution channel consisted
of eight national and regional third-party distributors and several independent
sales representatives at numerous locations throughout the U.S. and Canada.

Approximately 29% of the Company's fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from sales to
customers in Europe; 13% to customers in Japan; and 12% to customers in other
international markets. As of December 1, 1997, the Company had direct sales
offices in Australia, Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Korea, The Netherlands, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan and the
United Kingdom. The Company also had sales representatives and/or distributors
in approximately 36 countries outside North America, including countries where
the Company also has direct sales offices. For further detail regarding
geographic information, see Note 3 in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders and filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.2.

Approximately 42% of Analog's fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from sales made
through distributors. The Company's distributors typically maintain an inventory
of Analog products. Some of these distributors also sell products competitive
with the Company's products, including those for which the Company is an
alternate source. Sales to certain distributors are made under agreements which
provide protection to the distributors for their inventory of Company products
against price reductions and products that are slow-moving or have been
discontinued by the Company.

                                       4
<PAGE>   6



The Company's worldwide sales efforts are supported by an extensive promotional
program that includes editorial coverage and paid advertising in trade
publications; direct mail programs; promotional brochures; technical seminars;
and participation in trade shows. The Company publishes and distributes
full-length databooks, short-form catalogs, applications guides, technical
handbooks and detailed data sheets for individual products. The Company also
provides products and application information via its worldwide web site on the
Internet. The Company also maintains a staff of application engineers who aid
customers in incorporating Analog's products into their products during their
product development cycles.

For fiscal 1997, Analog's 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 29%
of the Company's net sales. The largest single customer represented less than 4%
of net sales.

PRODUCTION AND RAW MATERIALS

Monolithic integrated circuit components are manufactured in a sequence of
production steps that include wafer fabrication, wafer testing, cutting the
wafer into individual "chips" (or dice), assembly of the dice into packages and
electrical testing of the devices in final packaged form. The raw materials used
to manufacture these devices include silicon wafers, processing chemicals
(including liquefied gases), precious metals, ceramic packages and plastic used
for plastic packaging.

In addition to using industry-standard bipolar and CMOS wafer fabrication
processes, Analog employs a wide variety of Company-developed proprietary
processes specifically tailored for use in fabricating high-performance linear
and mixed-signal SLICs and system-level ICs.

Analog's IC products are fabricated both at the Company's production facilities
and by third-party wafer fabricators. The Company relies primarily on its own
facilities for fabricating wafers that require linear and mixed-signal
processes. The Company operates wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington and
Cambridge, Massachusetts; Santa Clara and Sunnyvale, California; and Limerick,
Ireland for production of linear and mixed-signal devices. The Company also
operates assembly and test facilities located in the United States, Ireland, the
Philippines and Taiwan and also uses third-party subcontractors. The Company
uses two principal foundries, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company
("TSMC") and Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. ("CSM") for the
production of digital and VLSI mixed-signal devices. To provide access to
advanced process technology at competitive costs, the Company has entered into a
joint venture agreement (WaferTech, LLC) with TSMC, Altera, Integrated Silicon
Solutions and several individual investors to build an eight-inch wafer
fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. Analog is an 18% equity partner in
the joint venture, which is expected to become operational late in 1998, and has
rights to purchase up to 27% of the output from this facility.

Hybrid products are manufactured by mounting and connecting together several
integrated circuit chips in a single package. Some of the chips used in the
Company's hybrids are manufactured by the Company and some are purchased from
outside suppliers. The production process for modular components, subsystems and
systems consists primarily of assembly, packaging and testing. Some of the
Company's assembled products are assembled and tested within the Company's U.S.
manufacturing facilities, while others are assembled and tested at Company-owned
facilities outside the United States or by subcontractors, principally in the
Far East.

To respond to production capacity shortages which existed during 1995, the
Company significantly expanded its manufacturing capacity during 1996 and 1997.
Major wafer fabrication expansions have been completed in Wilmington,
Massachusetts; Cambridge, Massachusetts; Sunnyvale, California and Limerick,
Ireland. In addition, the Company has completed construction of an additional
assembly and test facility in Cavite, Philippines.

BACKLOG

Backlog at the end of fiscal 1997 was approximately $280 million; it was
approximately $291 million at the end of fiscal 1996. The Company may allow
customers to revise the quantities or delivery schedules of products ordered to
reflect changes in their needs. Accordingly, the Company believes that its
backlog at any time should not be used as a measure of future revenues.

                                       5
<PAGE>   7



GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

The Company estimates that approximately 12% of its fiscal 1997 total worldwide
revenue was attributable to sales to the U.S. government and government
contractors and subcontractors. Analog's government contract related business is
predominantly in the form of negotiated, firm fixed-price subcontracts. All such
contracts and subcontracts contain standard provisions relating to termination
at the election of the United States government.

COMPETITION

Analog competes with a large number of semiconductor companies in markets that
are highly competitive. The Company believes it is one of the largest suppliers
of high-performance linear and mixed-signal signal-processing components. These
types of products fall into both the SLIC and system-level IC product
categories. Competitors for the Company's linear and mixed-signal products
include Burr-Brown Corp., Cirrus Logic Inc., Exar Corp., Harris Corp., Linear
Technology Corp., Maxim Integrated Products, Inc., National Semiconductor Corp.,
Rockwell International Corp., Sierra Semiconductor Corp., Siliconix Inc., Texas
Instruments, Inc. and others.

Sales of DSPs represent a growing percentage of the Company's total sales.
Analog's competitors in the DSP IC market include Lucent Technologies Inc.,
Motorola Semiconductor Products and Texas Instruments, Inc.

Many other companies offer components that compete with Analog's products; some
also offer other electronic products, and some have financial resources
substantially larger than Analog's. Also, some formerly independent competitors
have been purchased by larger companies. However, to the Company's knowledge, no
manufacturer competes with Analog across all of the product types offered by the
Company in its signal-processing components product line.

Analog believes that competitive performance in the marketplace for real-world
signal-processing components depends upon several factors, including product
price, technical innovation, product quality and reliability, range of products,
customer service and technical support. Analog believes its aggressive technical
innovation emphasizing product performance and reliability, supported by its
commitment to strong customer service and technical support, enables the Company
to continue to compete successfully in its chosen markets against both foreign
and domestic semiconductor manufacturers.

ENVIRONMENT

Analog's manufacturing facilities are subject to numerous environmental laws and
regulations, particularly with respect to industrial waste and emissions.
Compliance with these laws and regulations has not had a material impact on the
Company's capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

As of November 1, 1997, the Company employed approximately 7,500 persons. The
Company's future success depends in large part on the continued service of its
key technical and senior management personnel, and on its ability to continue to
attract, retain and motivate qualified employees, particularly those highly
skilled design, process and test engineers involved in the manufacture of
existing products and the development of new products and processes. The
competition for such personnel is intense, and the loss of key employees could
have a material adverse effect on the Company. The Company believes that
relations with its employees are good.


                                       6

<PAGE>   8


ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

The Company's corporate headquarters is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.
Manufacturing and other operations are carried on in several locations
worldwide. The following tables provide certain information as to the Company's
principal general offices and manufacturing facilities:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
    PLANT LOCATION
       OWNED:                                              USE                                           FLOOR SPACE
       ------                                              ---                                           -----------

<S>                        <C>                                                                        <C>            
Wilmington,                Wafer fabrication, components assembly and testing, engineering and         265,200 sq. ft.
Massachusetts              administrative offices

Wilmington,                Engineering, marketing and administrative offices                           108,000 sq. ft.
Massachusetts

Wilmington,                Components engineering, marketing and administrative offices                 67,200 sq. ft.
Massachusetts

Westwood,                  Components and subsystems assembly and testing, engineering and             100,500 sq. ft.
Massachusetts              administrative offices

Limerick,                  Wafer fabrication, wafer probe and testing, engineering and                 311,400 sq. ft.
Ireland                    administrative offices

Greensboro,                Components and board assembly and testing, engineering and                  100,000 sq. ft.
North Carolina             administrative offices

Cavite, Philippines        Components assembly and testing, engineering and administrative             166,000 sq. ft.
                           offices

Manila, Philippines        Components assembly and testing, engineering and administrative              85,000 sq. ft.
                           offices
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     PRINCIPAL                                                                                   LEASE
     PROPERTIES                         USE                                 FLOOR SPACE       EXPIRATION      RENEWALS
       LEASED                           ---                                 -----------      (FISCAL YEAR)    --------
       ------                                                                                 -------------

<S>                   <C>                                                 <C>                    <C>         <C>        
Norwood,              Corporate headquarters, engineering, components      135,000 sq. ft.        2007        3, five-yr.
Massachusetts         testing, sales and marketing offices                                                    periods

Cambridge,            Wafer fabrication, components testing and            116,000 sq. ft.        2001        2, five-yr.
Massachusetts         assembly engineering, marketing and                                                     periods
                      administrative offices

Santa Clara,          Wafer fabrication, components assembly and            72,800 sq. ft.        2000        2, five-yr.
California            testing, engineering and administrative offices                                         periods

Santa Clara,          Administrative offices and engineering                43,500 sq. ft.        2000        2, five-yr.
California                                                                                                    periods

Sunnyvale,            Wafer fabrication                                     40,000 sq. ft.        2000        3, five-yr.
California                                                                                                    periods

Taipei,               Components testing, engineering and                   53,400 sq. ft.        2001        1, five to
Taiwan                administrative offices                                                                  seven yr.
                                                                                                              period
</TABLE>
                                                                              

                                       7


<PAGE>   9


ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES -- (CONTINUED)

In addition to the principal leased properties listed in the previous table, the
Company also leases sales offices and other premises at 29 locations in the
United States and 28 locations overseas under operating lease agreements. These
leases expire at various dates through the year 2010. The Company anticipates no
difficulty in retaining occupancy of any of its manufacturing, office or sales
facilities through lease renewals prior to expiration or through month-to-month
occupancy, or in replacing them with equivalent facilities. For information
concerning the Company's obligations under all operating and capital leases see
Note 7 in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements
incorporated herein by reference to the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and
filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.2.

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information required by this item is set forth in Note 8 in the Notes to the
Company's Consolidated Financial Statements incorporated herein by reference to
the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders and filed herewith as part of Exhibit
13.2.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders during the
last quarter of the fiscal year ended November 1, 1997.

                                       8
<PAGE>   10
\

                        EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

The following table sets forth (i) the name and age of each present executive
officer of the Company; (ii) the position(s) presently held by each person
named; and (iii) the principal occupations held by each person named for at
least the past five years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

    EXECUTIVE OFFICER     AGE                POSITION                             BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
    -----------------     ---                --------                             -------------------

<S>                                <C>                                <C>          
Ray Stata..................63       Chairman of the Board and          Chairman  of  the  Board  since  1973; Acting 
                                    Acting General Manager,            General Manager, Micromachined Products Division since  
                                    Micromachined Products Division    September 1996; Chief Executive Officer from 1973 to 
                                                                       November 1996; President from 1971 to November 1991.


Jerald G. Fishman..........52       President, Chief Executive         Chief Executive Officer since November 1996; 
                                    Officer and Director               President and Director since November 1991;
                                                                       Executive Vice President from 1988 to 
                                                                       November 1991; Group Vice President-Components
                                                                       from 1982 to 1988.


Ross Brown.................53       Vice President, Human Resources    Vice  President,  Human  Resources  since  May
                                                                       1993;  U.S.   Personnel  Manager  for  Digital
                                                                       Equipment  Corp.  from  1990 to  1993;  Senior
                                                                       Group  Personnel  Manager at Digital from 1986
                                                                       to 1990.


David D. French............41       Vice President and General         Vice President and General Manager, Computer       
                                    Manager, Computer Products         Products Division since May 1994; Vice       
                                    Division                           President and General Manager of Systems IC  
                                                                       Products Division from November 1991 to May  
                                                                       1994; Division General Manager from February 
                                                                       1988 to November 1991.                       

Russell K. Johnsen.........43       Vice President and General         Vice    President    and   General    Manager,
                                    Manager, Communications Division   Communications  Division since May 1994;  Vice
                                                                       President and General Manager,  Analog Devices
                                                                       Semiconductor  Division  from November 1993 to
                                                                       May  1994;  General  Manager  of the Wide Area
                                                                       Networks  Division of  National  Semiconductor
                                                                       Corp. from 1992 to 1993.


Robert R. Marshall.........43       Vice President, Worldwide          Vice President,  Worldwide Manufacturing since
                                    Manufacturing                      February 1994; Vice President,  Manufacturing,
                                                                       Limerick   Site,   Analog   Devices,   B.V.  -
                                                                       Limerick,   Ireland  from   November  1991  to
                                                                       February 1994; Plant Manager,  Analog Devices,
                                                                       B.V. - Limerick,  Ireland from January 1991 to
                                                                       November 1991.
</TABLE>
                                        9

<PAGE>   11


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

    EXECUTIVE OFFICER     AGE                POSITION                             BUSINESS EXPERIENCE
    -----------------     ---                --------                             -------------------

<S>                                 <C>                               <C>               
William A. Martin..........38       Treasurer                          Treasurer since March 1993; Assistant          
                                                                       Treasurer from October 1991 to March 1993;    
                                                                       Manager of Treasury Finance from March 1987 to
                                                                       October 1991; Manager of International        
                                                                       Treasury from October 1985 to March 1987.     

Robert McAdam..............47       Vice President and General         Vice President and General  Manager,  Standard
                                    Manager, Standard Linear           Linear Products  Division since February 1994;
                                    Products Division                  Vice  President  and General  Manager,  Analog
                                                                       Devices,   B.V.  -  Limerick,   Ireland   from
                                                                       January  1991 to February  1994;  Product Line
                                                                       Manager,  Analog  Devices,  B.V.  -  Limerick,
                                                                       Ireland from October 1988 to January 1991.


Brian P. McAloon...........47       Vice President, Sales              Vice  President,  Sales  since May 1992;  Vice
                                                                       President,  Sales and  Marketing  - Europe and
                                                                       Southeast  Asia  from  1990 to  1992;  General
                                                                       Manager,  Analog  Devices,  B.V.  -  Limerick,
                                                                       Ireland from 1987 to 1990.


Joseph E. McDonough........50       Vice President, Finance and        Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial      
                                    Chief Financial Officer            Officer since November 1991; Vice President 
                                                                       since 1988 and Treasurer from 1985 to March 
                                                                       1993; Director of Taxes from 1983 to 1985.  
                                                                       

H. Goodloe Suttler.........46       Vice President, Marketing,         Vice President, Marketing, Quality and              
                                    Quality and Planning               Planning since October 1993; Vice President  
                                                                       and General Manager, Analog Devices          
                                                                       Semiconductor Division from November 1991 to 
                                                                       October 1993; General Manager of Analog      
                                                                       Devices Semiconductor Division from August   
                                                                       1988 to November 1991.                       

Franklin Weigold...........58       Vice President and General         Vice    President    and   General    Manager,
                                    Manager, Transportation and        Transportation    and   Industrial    Products
                                    Industrial Products Division       Division  since  March  1992;   President  and
                                                                       Chief Operating  Officer of Unitrode from June
                                                                       1990 to March 1992.
</TABLE>


There is no family relationship among the named officers.

                                       10
<PAGE>   12



                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")
under the symbol ADI. The table below sets forth the NYSE high and low sale
prices of the Common Stock during the two most recent fiscal years.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 FISCAL 1997                              FISCAL 1996
                                          -----------------------                  ------------------------
              PERIOD                         HIGH            LOW                     HIGH              LOW
              ------                         ----            ---                     ----              ---
<S>                                       <C>             <C>                      <C>             <C>     
         First Quarter                    $  29.25        $ 19.63                  $ 19.38         $  13.13
         Second Quarter                   $  29.25        $ 21.00                  $ 22.63         $  16.13
         Third Quarter                    $  33.75        $ 23.88                  $ 22.38         $  12.75
         Fourth Quarter                   $  36.69        $ 26.00                  $ 22.25         $  14.63
</TABLE>

The Company's $60,000,000 credit agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash
dividend payments declared or made subsequent to November 2, 1996 to an amount
not exceeding $150,000,000 plus 50% of the consolidated net income of the
Company for the period from November 3, 1996 through the end of the Company's
then most recent fiscal quarter. At November 1, 1997 this amount was equal to
$239,110,000. The Company has never paid any cash dividends on its Common Stock
and has no current intentions to do so.

The approximate number of holders of record of the Company's Common Stock at
December 31, 1997 was 5,132. This number does not include shareholders for whom
shares are held in a "nominee" or "street" name.

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
(thousands except per share amounts)        1997             1996             1995             1994               1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>             <C>              <C>              <C>                <C>        
Statement of Operations data:
    Net sales..................       $1,243,494      $ 1,193,786      $   941,546      $   773,474        $   666,319
    Net income.................          178,219          171,901          119,270           74,496             44,457
    Net income per
      share....................             1.04             1.03              .75              .48                .29

Balance Sheet data:
    Total assets...............       $1,763,853      $ 1,508,272      $   993,349      $   813,088        $   676,179
    Long-term debt and non-
      current obligations under
      capital leases...........          348,852          353,666           80,000           80,061            100,297
</TABLE>

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
"Management Analysis" set forth on pages 1 through 7 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders and is filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.1.

ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
"Management Analysis" set forth on pages 1 through 7 of the 1997 Annual Report
to Shareholders and is filed herewith as part of Exhibit 13.1.

                                       11
<PAGE>   13


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders under the headings "Financial
Section - Consolidated Statements of Income, - Consolidated Balance Sheets, -
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity, - Consolidated Statements of
Cash Flows, - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, - Report of Ernst &
Young LLP, Independent Auditors and - Supplementary Financial Information," and
is filed herewith as Exhibit 13.2.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.


                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The response to this item is contained in part under the caption "EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY" in Part I hereof, and the remainder is contained in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
March 10, 1998 (the "1998 Proxy Statement") under the caption "Election of
Directors" and is incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to a
delinquent filing of a Form 4 by an Executive Officer of the Company is
contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement under the caption "Beneficial
Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement
under the captions "Directors' Compensation," "Executive Compensation," and
"Severance and Other Agreements," and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management" and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The response to this item is contained in the Company's 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Transactions with Directors," and is incorporated herein by
reference.


                                       12
<PAGE>   14


                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      The following consolidated financial statements are included in the
      Company's 1997 Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference 
      pursuant to Item 8:

        -  Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended November 1,
           1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995

        -  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996
           and October 28, 1995

        -  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended
           November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995

        -  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended November 1,
           1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995

(a) 2.     FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

      The following consolidated financial statement schedule is included in
      Item 14(d):

        Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

      All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is
      not present, or not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of
      the schedule, or because the information required is included in the
      consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

(a) 3.     LISTING OF EXHIBITS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
      EXHIBIT
        NO.                           DESCRIPTION
        ---                           -----------

<S>             <C>                                                                   
       3.1      Restated Articles of Organization of Analog Devices, Inc., as
                amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form S-8 filed on
                May 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

  +    3.2      By-laws of Analog Devices, Inc. as amended.

       4.1      Rights Agreement, as amended, between Analog Devices, Inc. and
                The First National Bank of Boston, as Rights Agent, filed as an
                exhibit to a Form 8 filed on June 27, 1989 amending the
                Registration Statement on Form 8-A relating to Common Stock
                Purchase Rights, and incorporated herein by reference.

       4.2      Indenture dated as of March 1, 1993 between Analog Devices, Inc.
                and The First National Bank of Boston, filed as an exhibit to
                the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29,
                1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

       4.3      Indenture dated as of December 18, 1995 between Analog Devices,
                Inc. and State Street Bank and Trust Company, as Trustee, filed
                as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                ended October 28, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference.

*      4.4      Analog Devices, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as an
                exhibit to a Form S-8 filed on December 8, 1995 and incorporated
                herein by reference, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment
                No. 2, filed as Exhibits to Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 to
                Form S-8 filed on April 5, 1997, and Amendment No. 3, filed as
                an Exhibit to Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to form S-8 filed
                on November 12, 1997.

* +    10.1     Bonus Plan of Analog Devices, Inc.

*      10.2     1991 Restricted Stock Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., filed
                as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year
                ended November 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference
</TABLE>

                                       13
<PAGE>   15

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

      EXHIBIT
        NO.                            DESCRIPTION
        ---                            -----------

<S>             <C>  
*      10.3     1980 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended November 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

*      10.4     Restated 1988 Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc.,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter ended May 3, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference.

*      10.5     1989 Director Stock Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as
                amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the
                fiscal year ended November 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

* +    10.6     1992 Director Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc.

*      10.7     1994 Director Option Plan of Analog Devices, Inc., as amended,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter ended February 1, 1997 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

  +    10.8     Amended and restated lease agreement dated May 1, 1992
                between Analog Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Everett Street
                Trust relating to the premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood,
                Massachusetts.

       10.9     Guaranty dated as of May 1, 1994 between Analog Devices, Inc.
                and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company relating to the premises
                at 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts, filed as an exhibit
                to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April
                30, 1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

       10.10    Letter Agreement dated as of May 18, 1994 between Analog
                Devices, Inc. and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company relating
                to the premises at 3 Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter ended April 30, 1994 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

  +    10.11    Reimbursement Agreement dated May 18, 1992 between Analog
                Devices, Inc. and the trustees of Everett Street Trust.

       10.12    Lease agreement dated August 8, 1990 between Precision
                Monolithics, Inc. and Bourns, Inc. relating to the premises at
                1525 Comstock Road, Santa Clara, California, filed as an exhibit
                to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 2,
                1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

       10.13    Lease amendment dated May 1, 1996 to the Lease Agreement dated
                August 8, 1990 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Bourns, Inc.,
                relating to premises located at 1525 Comstock Road, Santa Clara,
                California, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for
                the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

       10.14    Lease agreement dated August 8, 1990, as amended, between
                Precision Monolithics, Inc. and Bourns, Inc. relating to the
                premises at 1500 Space Park Drive, Santa Clara, California,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
                year ended November 2, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

       10.15    Lease amendment dated May 1, 1996 to the Lease Agreement dated
                August 8, 1990 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Bourns, Inc.,
                relating to premises located at 1500 Space Park Drive, Santa
                Clara, California, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form
                10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 1996 and incorporated
                herein by reference.
</TABLE>

                                       14
<PAGE>   16

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

      EXHIBIT
        NO.                       DESCRIPTION
        ---                       -----------

<S>             <C>
       10.16    Credit Agreement dated as of March 12, 1993 among Analog
                Devices, Inc. and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York,
                Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association,
                Continental Bank, N.A., The First National Bank of Boston and
                Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as Agent, filed as an
                exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
                May 1, 1993 and incorporated herein by reference.

       10.17    Amendment No. 1 dated as of May 18, 1993 to the Company's Credit
                Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to the
                Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 1993
                and incorporated herein by reference.

       10.18    Amendment No. 2 dated as of September 8, 1994 to the Company's
                Credit Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to
                the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 29,
                1994 and incorporated herein by reference.

       10.19    Amendment No. 3 dated as of October 25, 1996 to the Company's
                Credit Agreement dated March 12, 1993, filed as an exhibit to
                the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 2,
                1996 and incorporated herein by reference.

* +    10.20    Form of Employee Retention Agreement, as amended.

*      10.21    Employee Change in Control Severance Policy of Analog
                Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the Company's
                10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1993 and incorporated
                herein by reference.

*      10.22    Senior Management Change in Control Severance Policy of
                Analog Devices, Inc., as amended, filed as an exhibit to the
                Company's 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 30, 1993 and
                incorporated herein by reference.

*      10.23    Description of Consulting Arrangement between Analog Devices,
                Inc. and John L. Doyle, filed as an exhibit to the Company's
                Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 2, 1996 and
                incorporated herein by reference.

*      10.24    Letter agreement between Analog Devices, Inc. and Jerald
                G. Fishman dated December 15, 1994 relating to acceleration of
                stock options and restricted stock awards upon termination of
                employment, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-K for
                the fiscal year ended October 29, 1994 and incorporated herein
                by reference.

**     10.25    Option Agreement dated as of May 16, 1995 between Analog
                Devices B.V. and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company,
                Ltd., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the
                fiscal quarter ended July 29, 1995 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

**     10.26    Wafer Production Agreement dated as of May 16, 1995
                between Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd. and
                Analog Devices B.V., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form
                10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 29, 1995 and incorporated
                herein by reference.

       10.27    Lease Agreement dated June 16, 1995 between Analog Devices, Inc.
                and Ferrari Brothers, relating to the premises at 610 Weddell
                Drive, Sunnyvale, California, filed as an exhibit to the
                Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 2, 1996
                and incorporated herein by reference.

       10.28    Lease amendment dated March 1, 1996 to the Lease Agreement dated
                June 16, 1995 between Analog Devices, Inc. and Ferrari Brothers,
                relating to premises located at 610 Weddell Drive, Sunnyvale,
                California, filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for
                the fiscal quarter ended May 4, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.
</TABLE>

                                       15
<PAGE>   17

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

      EXHIBIT
        NO.                           DESCRIPTION
        ---                           -----------

<S>             <C>  
**     10.29    Manufacturing Agreement dated as of March 17, 1995 between
                Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte. Ltd. and Analog
                Devices B.V., filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for
                the fiscal quarter ended February 3, 1996 and incorporated
                herein by reference.

**     10.30    Deposit Agreement dated January 30, 1996 between Chartered
                Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte. Ltd. and Analog Devices B.V.,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter ended February 3, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

       10.31    Lease Agreement dated February 8, 1996 between Analog Devices,
                Inc. and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, relating to
                premises located at 21 Osborn Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts,
                filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the fiscal
                quarter ended February 3, 1996 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

**     10.32    Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement
                of WaferTech, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, dated
                as of August 9, 1996. Filed as Exhibit 10.47 to the Form 10-Q of
                Altera Corporation (File No. 0-16617) for the fiscal quarter
                ended June 30, 1996, and incorporated herein by reference.

**     10.33    Purchase Agreement by and between Taiwan Semiconductor
                Manufacturing Co., Ltd., as seller and Analog Devices, Inc.,
                Altera Corporation and Integrated Silicon Solutions, Inc., as
                buyers dated as of June 25, 1996. Filed as Exhibit 10.48 to the
                Form 10-Q of Altera Corporation (File No. 0-16617) for the
                fiscal quarter ended June 30, 1996, and incorporated herein by
                reference.

*      10.34    Trust Agreement for Deferred Compensation Plan, filed as
                an exhibit to the Company's Post Effective Amendment No. 2 to
                Form S-3 filed November 12, 1997 and incorporated herein by
                reference.

  +    10.35    Lease agreement dated September 19, 1996 between Ren Min
                Company Limited and Analog Devices Taiwan, Limited relating to
                the premises at Five-Kung-Five Road, Taipei, Taiwan.

  +    11.1     Computation of Earnings Per Share.
  
  +    13.1     Management Analysis incorporated by reference to pages 1 through
                7 of the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.
  
  +    13.2     Financial Statements and Notes thereto, Report of Ernst & Young
                LLP, Independent Auditors and Supplementary Financial
                Information, incorporated by reference to pages 8 through 33 of
                the 1997 Annual Report to Shareholders.
  
  +    21       Subsidiaries of the Company.
  
  +    23       Consent of Ernst & Young LLP.
  
       27       Financial Data Schedule.
- ---------------
*       Management contracts and compensatory plan or arrangements required to
        be filed as an Exhibit pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.

**      Confidential treatment has been granted as to certain portions of these 
        Exhibits.

+       Filed herewith.

(b)     REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

        The Company filed no reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and
        Exchange Commission during the fiscal quarter ended November 1, 1997.
</TABLE>

                                       16
<PAGE>   18


                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
 (Registrant)

By:   /s/  Jerald G. Fishman                  By:   /s/  Joseph E. McDonough
      ------------------------------------          ----------------------------
      Jerald G. Fishman                             Joseph E. McDonough
      President                                     Vice President-Finance
      Chief Executive Officer                       and Chief Financial Officer
      and Director                                  (Principal Financial and
      (Principal Executive Officer)                 Accounting Officer)


Date: JANUARY 28, 1998                        Date: JANUARY 28, 1998
      ------------------------------------          ----------------------------


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

           NAME                                         TITLE                       DATE
           ----                                         -----                       ----

<S>                                           <C>                             <C> 
/s/   Ray Stata                                 Chairman of the Board         JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      Ray Stata

/s/   Jerald G. Fishman                              President,               JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                Chief Executive Officer        ----------------
      Jerald G. Fishman                             and Director          
                                               

/s/   John L. Doyle                                   Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      John L. Doyle

/s/   Samuel H. Fuller                                Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      Samuel H. Fuller

/s/   Charles O. Holliday                             Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      Charles O. Holliday

/s/   Gordon C. McKeague                              Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      Gordon C. McKeague

/s/   Joel Moses                                      Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      Joel Moses

/s/   F. Grant Saviers *                              Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      F. Grant Saviers

/s/   Lester C. Thurow                                Director                JANUARY 28, 1998
- -------------------------------                                               ----------------
      Lester C. Thurow
</TABLE>

*    Became a member of the Board of  Directors  on  December  10, 1997 and,  
     accordingly,  did not serve as a Director during fiscal 1997.

                                       17
<PAGE>   19


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

                           YEAR ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997

                                   ITEM 14(d)
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

                                       18
<PAGE>   20



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                 SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
       YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997, NOVEMBER 2, 1996 AND OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                   (THOUSANDS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                             BALANCE AT            ADDITION                               BALANCE AT
                                            BEGINNING OF          CHARGED TO                                END OF
DESCRIPTION                                    PERIOD               EXPENSE             DEDUCTIONS          PERIOD
- -----------                                    ------               -------             ----------          ------

ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE RESERVES AND ALLOWANCES:

<S>                                         <C>                  <C>                   <C>                <C>      
Year ended October 28, 1995*                 $   9,185            $   5,952             $   2,399          $  12,738
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
Year ended November 2, 1996*                 $  12,738            $   2,611             $     564          $  14,785
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
Year ended November 1, 1997                  $  14,785            $  25,456             $     234          $  40,007
                                             =========            =========             =========          =========
</TABLE>

* Amounts have been restated to reflect reclassification of certain reserves
  from Accrued liabilities to Accounts receivable.


                                       19




</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.2
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>ANALOG DEVICES, INC.  BY - LAWS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
           
                                                                     EXHIBIT 3.2




                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                                     BY-LAWS

                             ARTICLE I- STOCKHOLDERS


        1.      PLACE OF MEETINGS. All meetings of stockholders shall be held
within Massachusetts unless the Articles of Organization permit the holding of
stockholder meetings outside Massachusetts, in which event such meetings may be
held either within or without Massachusetts. Meetings of stockholders shall be
held at the principal office of the corporation unless a different place is
fixed by the Directors or the President and stated in the notice of the meeting.

        2.      ANNUAL MEETINGS. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be
held on such date, within six months after the end of the fiscal year of the
corporation, and at such hour and place as shall be fixed by the Board of
Directors of the corporation. The purposes for which the annual meeting is to be
held, in addition to those prescribed by law, by the Articles of Organization or
by these By-Laws, may be specified by the Board of Directors or the President.

        3.      SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of stockholders may be called
by the President or by the Board of Directors. In addition, upon written
application of one or more stockholders who are entitled to vote and who hold at
least the Required Percentage (as defined below) of the capital stock entitled
to vote at the meeting (the "Voting Stock"), special meetings shall be called by
the Clerk, or in case of the death,




<PAGE>   2


absence, incapacity or refusal of the Clerk, by any other officer. For purposes
of this Section 3, the "Required Percentage" shall be 80% or such lesser
percentage as shall constitute the maximum percentage permitted by law for this
purpose. Any request for a call of a special meeting of stockholders ("Call") by
the holders of the Required Percentage of the Voting Stock shall be governed by
and subject to the following:

        (a)     Any stockholder of record seeking to solicit requests for a Call
pursuant to this Section 3 shall so notify the Clerk of the corporation in
writing, and such written notification shall set forth the reason or reasons for
the Call and the purpose or purposes of such special meeting.

        (b)     No solicitation of stockholder requests for a Call ("Call
Solicitation") may be commenced (i) before the Call Request Record Date, as
defined in paragraph (c) of this Section 3, or (ii) during the period of 120
days following the most recent meeting of the stockholders of the corporation.

        (c)     In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders
entitled to request a Call, the Board of Directors of the corporation shall fix
a record date (the "Call Request Record Date"). Any stockholder of record
seeking to solicit stockholder requests for a Call shall, with delivery to the
corporation of the written information specified in paragraph (a), request in
writing that the Board of Directors fix the Call Request Record Date. The Board
of Directors shall, within 10 days after the date on which such request is
received, adopt a resolution fixing the Call Request Record Date, and such Call
Request Record Date shall be not more than 10 days after the date upon which
such resolution is adopted by the Board of Directors.


                                       -2-


<PAGE>   3


        (d)     All requests for a Call and revocations thereof shall be
delivered to the corporation no later than the 30th day (the "Delivery Date")
after the Call Request Record Date.

        (e)     Any stockholder may revoke a prior request for a Call or
opposition to a Call by an instrument in writing delivered prior to the Delivery
Date.

        (f)     Promptly after the Delivery Date, requests for a Call and
revocations thereof shall be counted and verified by an independent party
selected by the corporation.

        (g)     If, in response to any Call Solicitation, the holders of record
of the Required Percentage of the Voting Stock as of the Call Request Record
Date submit valid and unrevoked requests for a Call no later than the Delivery
Date, the Board of Directors of the corporation shall fix a record date pursuant
to Section 4 of Article I hereof and a meeting date for the special meeting,
PROVIDED that the date to be fixed for such meeting shall be no earlier than 60
days or later than 90 days after the Delivery Date, and PROVIDED FURTHER that
the Board of Directors shall not be obligated to fix a meeting date or to hold
any meeting of stockholders within 60 days of the next scheduled meeting of the
stockholders of the corporation.

        (h)     In the absence of a quorum at any special meeting called
pursuant to a Call Solicitation, such special meeting may be postponed or
adjourned from time to time only by the officer of the corporation entitled to
preside at such meeting.

        (i)     If a Call Solicitation does not receive the support of the
holders of record of the Required Percentage of the Voting Stock, no subsequent
Call may be


                                       -3-


<PAGE>   4


made or solicited by any stockholder during a period of 90 days after the
Delivery Date.

        4.      NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Except as provided in Section 3 of this
Article I, a written notice of every meeting of stockholders, stating the place,
date and hour thereof, and the purposes for which the meeting is to be held,
shall be given by the Clerk or other person calling the meeting at least seven
days before the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat and to each
stockholder who, by law, by the Articles of Organization or by these By-Laws, is
entitled to such notice, by leaving such notice with him or at his residence or
usual place of business, or by mailing it postage prepaid and addressed to him
at his address as it appears upon the books of the corporation. Whenever any
notice is required to be given to a stockholder by law, by the Articles of
Organization or by these By-Laws, no such notice need to be given if a written
waiver of notice, executed before or after the meeting by the stockholder or his
attorney thereunto duly authorized, is filed with the records of the meeting.

        5.      QUORUM. Unless the Articles of Organization otherwise provide, a
majority in interest of all stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote on
any matter shall constitute a quorum with respect to that matter, except that if
two or more classes of stock are outstanding and entitled to vote as separate
classes, then in the case of each such class a quorum shall consist of a
majority in interest of the stock of that class issued, outstanding and entitled
to vote.



                                       -4-


<PAGE>   5


        6.      ADJOURNMENTS. Except as provided in Section 3 of this Article I,
any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned to any other time and to any other
place at which a meeting of stockholders may be held under these By-Laws by the
stockholders present or represented at the meeting, although less than a quorum,
or by any officer entitled to preside or to act as clerk of such meeting, if no
stockholder is present. It shall not be necessary to notify any stockholder of
any adjournment. Any business which could have been transacted at any meeting of
the stockholders as originally called may be transacted at any adjournment
thereof.

        7.      VOTING AND PROXIES. Each stockholder shall have one vote for
each share of stock entitled to vote held by him of record according to the
records of the corporation and a proportionate vote for a fractional share so
held by him, unless otherwise provided by the Articles of Organization.
Stockholders may vote either in person or by written proxy dated not more than
six months before the meeting named therein. Proxies shall be filed with the
clerk of the meeting, or of any adjournment thereof, before being voted. Except
as otherwise limited therein, proxies shall entitle the persons named therein to
vote at any adjournment of such meeting, but shall not be valid after final
adjournment of such meeting. A proxy with respect to stock held in the name of
two or more persons shall be valid if executed by one of them, unless at or
prior to exercise of the proxy the corporation receives a specific written
notice to the contrary from any one of them. A proxy purported to be executed by
or on behalf of a stockholder shall be deemed valid unless challenged at or
prior to its exercise.



                                       -5-


<PAGE>   6


        8.      ACTION AT MEETING. When a quorum is present, the holders of a
majority of the stock present or represented and voting on a matter (or if there
are two or more classes of stock entitled to vote as separate classes, then in
the case of each such class, the holders of a majority of the stock of that
class present or represented and voting on a matter), except where a larger vote
is required by law, the Articles of Organization or these By-Laws, shall decide
any matter to be voted on by the stockholders. Any election by stockholders
shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast by the stockholders
entitled to vote at the election. No ballot shall be required for such election
unless requested by a stockholder present or represented at the meeting and
entitled to vote in the election. The corporation shall not directly or
indirectly vote any share of its stock.

        9.      ACTION WITHOUT MEETING. Any action to be taken by stockholders
may be taken without a meeting if all stockholders entitled to vote on the
matter consent to the action by a writing filed with the records of the meetings
of stockholders. Such consent shall be treated for all purposes as a vote at a
meeting.


                             ARTICLE II - DIRECTORS

        1.      POWERS. The business of the corporation shall be managed by a
Board of Directors who may exercise all the powers of the corporation except as
otherwise provided by law, by the Articles of Organization or by these By-Laws.
In the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining Directors,
except as otherwise provided by law, may exercise the powers of the full Board
until the vacancy is filled.



                                       -6-


<PAGE>   7


        2.      NUMBER OF DIRECTORS, ELECTION. The number of Directors of the
corporation, which shall not be less than three, shall be fixed from time to
time by a majority of the Directors then in office. Elections of Directors need
not be by written ballot except as and to the extent provided in the By-Laws of
the corporation.

        3.      CLASSES OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors shall be and is
divided into three classes: Class I, Class II and Class III. No one class shall
have more than one Director more than any other class. If a fraction is
contained in the quotient arrived at by dividing the authorized number of
Directors by three, then if such fraction is one-third, the extra Director shall
be a member of Class III and, if such fraction is two-thirds, one of the extra
Directors shall be a member of Class III and one of the extra Directors shall be
a member of Class II, unless otherwise provided for from time to time by vote
adopted by a majority of the Directors then in office.

        4.      TERMS OF OFFICE. Each Director shall serve for a term ending on
the date of the third annual meeting following the annual meeting at which such
Director was elected; provided, however, that each initial Director in Class I
shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting next following
the end of the corporation's fiscal year 1990; each initial Director in Class II
shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting next following
the end of the corporation's fiscal year 1991; and each initial Director in
Class III shall serve for a term ending on the date of the annual meeting next
following the end of the corporation's fiscal year 1992. Notwithstanding any
provisions to the contrary contained herein, each Director shall



                                       -7-


<PAGE>   8


serve until a successor is elected and qualified or until his death, resignation
or removal.

        5.      ENLARGEMENT OF THE BOARD; VACANCIES. The number of Directors
constituting the Board of Directors may be increased solely by vote of a
majority of the Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum. Any
vacancies in the Board of Directors occurring for any reason and any newly
created directorships resulting from any increase in the number of Directors
shall be filled solely by the Board of Directors acting by the vote of a
majority of the Directors then in office, even though less than a quorum. Each
Director chosen to fill a vacancy shall hold office until the next election of
the class for which such Director shall have been chosen and until his successor
shall be elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or
removal.

        6.      ALLOCATION OF DIRECTORS AMONG CLASSES. In the event of any
increase or decrease in the authorized number of Directors, (a) each Director
then serving as such shall nevertheless continue as Director of the class of
which he is a member until the expiration of his current term or his prior
death, retirement or resignation and (b) the newly created or eliminated
directorships resulting from such increase or decrease shall be apportioned by
the Board of Directors among the three classes of Directors so as to ensure that
no one class has more than one Director more than any other class. To the extent
possible, consistent with the foregoing, any newly created directorships shall
be added to those classes whose terms of office are to expire at the latest
dates following such allocation, and any newly eliminated directorships shall be



                                       -8-


<PAGE>   9


subtracted from those classes whose terms of office are to expire at the
earliest dates following such allocation, unless otherwise provided for from
time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors then in
office, although less than a quorum.

        7.      QUORUM; ACTION OF MEETING. A majority of the Directors at any
time in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, if
at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than such a quorum,
a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time. Every act
or decision done or made by a majority of Directors present at a meeting duly
held at which a quorum is present shall be regarded as the act of the Board of
Directors unless a greater number be required by law, by the Articles of
Organization of the corporation or by these By-Laws.

        8.      RESIGNATIONS. Any Director may resign by delivering his written
resignation to the corporation's President, Clerk or Secretary. Such resignation
shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some
other time or upon the happening of some other event.

        9.      REMOVAL. A Director may be removed from office (a) with or
without cause by vote of a majority of the stockholders entitled to vote in the
election of Directors, provided that the Directors of a class elected by a
particular class of stockholders may be removed only by the vote of the holders
of a majority of the shares of such class or (b) for cause by vote of a majority
of the Directors then in


                                       -9-


<PAGE>   10


office. A Director may be removed for cause only after reasonable notice and
opportunity to be heard before the body proposing to remove him.

        10.     MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Directors may be held without
call or notice at such places, within or without Massachusetts, and at such
times as the Directors may from time to time determine, provided that any
Director who is absent when such determination is made shall be given notice of
the determination. A regular meeting of the Directors may be held without a call
or notice at the same place as the annual meeting of stockholders, or the
special meeting held in lieu thereof, following such meeting of stockholders.

        Special meetings of the Directors may be held at any time and place,
within or without Massachusetts, designated in a call by the President,
Treasurer or two or more Directors.

        11.     NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS. Notice of all special meetings of
the Directors shall be given to each Director by the Secretary, or if there be
no Secretary, by the Clerk, or Assistant Clerk, or in case of the death,
absence, incapacity or refusal of such persons, by the officer or one of the
Directors calling the meeting. Notice shall be given to each Director in person
or by telephone or by telegram sent to his business or home address at least
forty-eight hours in advance of the meeting, or by written notice mailed to his
business or home address at least seventy-two hours in advance of the meeting.
Notice need not be given to any Director if a written waiver of notice, executed
by him before or after the meeting, is filed with the records of the meeting, or
to any Director who attends the meeting without protesting prior thereto



                                      -10-


<PAGE>   11


or at its commencement the lack of notice to him. A notice or waiver of notice
of a Directors' meeting need not specify the purposes of the meeting.

        12.     ACTION AT MEETING. At any meeting of the Directors at which a
quorum is present, the vote of a majority of those present, unless a different
vote is specified by law, by the Articles of Organization or by these By-Laws,
shall be sufficient to take any action.

        13.     ACTION OF CONSENT. Any action by the Directors may be taken
without a meeting if a written consent thereto is signed by all the Directors
and filed with the records of the Directors' meetings. Such consent shall be
treated as a vote of the Directors for all purposes.

        14.     COMMITTEES. The Directors may, by vote of a majority of the
Directors then in office, elect from their number an executive committee or
other committees and may by like vote delegate thereto some or all of their
powers except those which by law, the Articles of Organization or these By-Laws
they are prohibited from delegating. Except as the Directors may otherwise
determine, any such committee may make rules for the conduct of its business,
but unless otherwise provided by the Directors or in such rules, its business
shall be conducted as nearly as may be in the same manner as is provided by
these By-Laws for the Directors.

        15.     MASSACHUSETTS LAW. To the extent that any of the provisions in
this Article II relating to the classification of Directors conflicts or is
inconsistent with any of the provisions of Section 50A of Chapter 156B of the
General Laws of the



                                      -11-


<PAGE>   12


Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as amended from time to time, the provisions of
Section 50A shall govern and control.

                             ARTICLE III - OFFICERS

        1.      ENUMERATION. The officers of the corporation shall consist of a
President, a Treasurer, a Clerk, and such other officers, including a Chairman
of the Board, one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Treasurers, Assistant
Clerks and Secretary as the Directors may determine.

        2.      ELECTION. The President, Treasurer and Clerk shall be elected
annually by the Directors at their first meeting following the annual meeting of
stockholders. Other officers may be appointed by the Directors at such meeting
or at any other meeting.

        3.      QUALIFICATION. The President shall be a Director. No officer
need be a stockholder. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person,
provided that the President and Clerk shall not be the same person. The Clerk
shall be a resident of Massachusetts unless the corporation has a resident agent
appointed for the purpose of service of process. Any officer may be required by
the Directors to give bond for the faithful performance of his duties to the
corporation in such amount and with such sureties as the Directors may
determine.

        4.      TENURE. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Articles of
Organization or by these By-Laws, the President, Treasurer and Clerk shall hold
office until the first meeting of the Directors following the annual meeting of
stockholders and thereafter until his successor is chosen and qualified; and all
other



                                      -12-


<PAGE>   13


officers shall hold office until the first meeting of the Directors following
the annual meeting of stockholders, unless a different term is specified in the
vote choosing or appointing them. Any officer may resign by delivering his
written resignation to the corporation at its principal office or to the
President, Clerk or Secretary, and such resignation shall be effective upon
receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the
happening of some other event.

        5.      REMOVAL. The Directors may remove any officer with or without
cause by a vote of a majority of the entire number of Directors then in office,
provided, that an officer may be removed for cause only after reasonable notice
and opportunity to be heard by the Board of Directors prior to action thereon.

        6.      CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Directors may appoint a Chairman of
the Board and may designate him as Chief Executive Officer. If the Directors
appoint a Chairman of the Board, he shall perform such duties and shall possess
such powers as are assigned to him by the Board of Directors. If the Board of
Directors shall designate the Chairman as Chief Executive Officer, he shall have
general charge and supervision of the business of the corporation, subject to
the direction of the Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall, when present,
preside at all meetings of the Directors.

        7.      PRESIDENT. Unless the Directors have designated the Chairman of
the Board or another officer as Chief Executive Officer, the President shall be
the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation and shall have general charge and
supervision of the business of the corporation. The President shall perform such
other duties and



                                      -13-


<PAGE>   14


shall possess such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time
prescribe.

        8.      VICE PRESIDENT. The Vice President, or if there shall be more
than one, the Vice Presidents in the order determined by the Directors, shall,
in the absence or disability of the President, perform the duties and exercise
the powers of the President and shall perform such other duties and shall have
such other powers as the Directors may from time to time prescribe.

        9.      TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS. The Treasurer shall, subject
to the direction of the Directors, have general charge of the financial affairs
of the corporation and shall cause to be kept accurate books of account. He
shall have custody of all funds, securities and valuable documents of the
corporation, except as the Directors may otherwise provide.

                The Assistant Treasurer, or if there shall be more than one, the
Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Directors, shall, in the
absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the
powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties and shall have such
other powers as the Directors may from time to time prescribe.

        10.     CLERK AND ASSISTANT CLERKS. The Clerk shall keep a record of the
meetings of stockholders. Unless a Transfer Agent is appointed, the Clerk shall
keep or cause to be kept in Massachusetts, at the principal office of the
corporation or at his office, the stock and transfer records of the corporation,
in which are contained



                                      -14-


<PAGE>   15


the names of all stockholders and the record address, and the amount of stock
held by each.

                If there is no Secretary or Assistant Secretary, the Clerk shall
keep a record of the meetings of the Directors.

                The Assistant Clerk, or if there shall be more than one, the
Assistant Clerks in the order determined by the Directors, shall, in the absence
or disability of the Clerk, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the
Clerk and shall perform such other duties and shall have such other powers as
the Directors may from time to time prescribe.

        11.     SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. If a Secretary is
appointed, he shall attend all meetings of the Directors and shall keep a record
of the meetings of the Directors. He shall, when required, notify the Directors
of their meetings, and shall have such other powers and shall perform such other
duties as the Directors may from time to time prescribe.

                The Assistant Secretary, or if there shall be more than one, the
Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Directors, shall, in the
absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the
powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties and shall have such
other powers as the Directors may from time to time prescribe.

        12.     OTHER POWERS AND DUTIES. Each officer shall, subject to these
By-Laws, have in addition to the duties and powers specifically set forth in
these By-Laws,



                                      -15-


<PAGE>   16


such duties and powers as are customarily incident to his office, and such
duties and powers as the Directors may from time to time designate.

                           ARTICLE IV - CAPITAL STOCK

        1.      CERTIFICATES OF STOCK. Each stockholder shall be entitled to a
certificate of the capital stock of the corporation in such form as may be
prescribed from time to time by the Directors. The certificate shall be signed
by the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant
Treasurer, but when a certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or a
registrar, other than a Director, officer or employee of the corporation, such
signatures may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed or whose
facsimile signature has been placed on such certificate shall have ceased to be
such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the
corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer at the time of its
issue.

                Every certificate for shares of stock which are subject to any
restriction on transfer pursuant to the Articles of Organization, the By-Laws or
any agreement to which the corporation is a party, shall have conspicuously
noted on the face or back of the certificate either the full text of the
restriction or a statement of the existence of such restrictions and a statement
that the corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such
certificate upon written request and without charge. Every certificate issued
when the corporation is authorized to issue more than one class or series of
stock shall set forth on its face or back either the full text of the
preferences, voting powers, qualifications and specifications and special and
relative rights of the shares of each class and series authorized to be issued
or a statement of the existence


                                      -16-


<PAGE>   17


of such preferences, powers, qualifications and rights and a statement that the
corporation will furnish a copy thereof to the holder of such certificate upon
written request and without charge.

        2.      TRANSFERS. Subject to the restrictions, if any, stated or noted
on the stock certificates, shares of stock may be transferred on the books of
the corporation by the surrender to the corporation or its transfer agent of the
certificate therefor properly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment
and power of attorney properly executed, with necessary transfer stamps affixed,
and with such proof of the authenticity of signature as the corporation or its
transfer agent may reasonably require. Except as may be otherwise required by
law, by the Articles of Organization or by these By-Laws, the corporation shall
be entitled to treat the record holder of stock as shown on its books as the
owner of such stock for all purposes, including the payment of dividends and the
right to vote with respect thereto, regardless of any transfer, pledge or other
disposition of such stock, until the shares have been transferred on the books
of the corporation in accordance with the requirements of these By-Laws.

                It shall be the duty of each stockholder to notify the
corporation of his post office address and of his taxpayer identification
number.

        3.      RECORD DATE. The Directors may fix in advance a time not more
than sixty days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders or the date
for the payment of any dividend or the making of any distribution to
stockholders or the last day on which the consent or dissent of stockholders may
be effectively expressed for



                                      -17-


<PAGE>   18


any purpose, as the record date for determining the stockholders having the
right to notice of and to vote at such meeting, and any adjournment thereof, or
the right to receive such dividend or distribution or the right to give such
consent or dissent. In such case only stockholders of record on such record date
shall have such right, notwithstanding any transfer of stock on the books of the
corporation after the record date. Without fixing such record date the Directors
may for any of such purposes close the transfer books for all or any part of
such period.

        4.      REPLACEMENT OF CERTIFICATES. In case of the alleged loss or
destruction or the mutilation of a certificate of stock, a duplicate certificate
may be issued in place thereof, upon such terms as the Directors may prescribe,
including the presentation of reasonable evidence of such loss, destruction or
mutilation and the giving of such indemnity as the Directors may require for the
protection of the corporation or any transfer agent or registrar.

        5.      ISSUE OF CAPITAL STOCK. Unless otherwise voted by the
stockholders, the whole or any part of any unissued balance of the authorized
capital stock of the corporation or the whole or any part of the capital stock
of the corporation held in its treasury may be issued or disposed of by vote of
the Directors, in such manner, for such consideration and on such terms as the
Directors may determine.


                      ARTICLE V - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

        1.      FISCAL YEAR. Except as from time to time otherwise determined by
the Directors, the fiscal year of the corporation shall be the 52 or 53 week
period, as the case may be, ending on the Saturday which is closest to the last
day of October.


                                      -18-


<PAGE>   19


        2.      SEAL. The seal of the corporation shall, subject to alteration
by the Directors, bear its name, the word "Massachusetts," and the year of its
incorporation.

        3.      EXECUTION OF INSTRUMENTS. All deeds, leases, transfers,
contracts, bonds, notes and other obligations authorized to be executed by an
officer of the corporation in its behalf shall be signed by the President or the
Treasurer except as the directors may generally or in particular cases otherwise
determine.

        4.      VOTING OF SECURITIES. Except as the Directors may otherwise
designate, the President or Treasurer may waive notice of, and act as, or
appoint any person or persons to act as, proxy or attorney in fact for, this
corporation (with or without power of substitution) at any meeting of
stockholders or shareholders of any other corporation or organization, the
securities of which may be held by this corporation.

        5.      CORPORATE RECORDS. The original, or attested copies, of the
Articles of Organization, By-Laws and records of all meetings of the
incorporators and stockholders, and the stock and transfer records, which shall
contain the names of all stockholders and the record address and the amount of
stock held by each, shall be kept in Massachusetts at the principal office of
the corporation, or at an office of its transfer agent or of the Clerk. Said
copies and records need not all be kept in the same office. They shall be
available at all reasonable times to the inspection of any stockholder for any
proper purpose, but not to secure a list of stockholders for the purpose of
selling said list or copies thereof or of using the same for a purpose other
than in the interest of the applicant, as a stockholder, relative to the affairs
of the corporation.



                                      -19-


<PAGE>   20


        6.      EVIDENCE OF AUTHORITY. A certificate by the Clerk or Secretary,
or an Assistant Clerk or Assistant Secretary, or a temporary Clerk or temporary
Secretary, as to any action taken by the stockholders, Directors, Executive
Committee or any officer or representative of the corporation shall as to all
persons who rely thereon in good faith be conclusive evidence of such action.

        7.      ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION. All reference in these By-Laws to the
Articles of Organization shall be deemed to refer to the Articles of
Organization of the corporation, as amended and in effect from time to time.

        8.      TRANSACTIONS WITH INTERESTED PARTIES. In the absence of fraud,
no contract or other transaction between this corporation and any other
corporation or any firm, association, partnership or person shall be affected or
invalidated by the fact that any Director or officer of this corporation is
pecuniarily or otherwise interested in or is a director, member or officer of
such other corporation or of such firm, association or partnership or is a party
to or is pecuniarily or otherwise interested in such contract or other
transaction or is in any way connected with any person or persons, firm,
association, partnership or corporation pecuniarily or otherwise interested
therein; provided that the fact that he individually or as a director, member or
officer of such corporation, firm, association or partnership is such a party or
is so interested shall be disclosed to or shall have been known by the Board of
Directors or a majority of such members thereof as shall be present at a meeting
of the Board of Directors at which action upon any such contract or transaction
shall be taken; any Director may be counted in determining the existence



                                      -20-


<PAGE>   21


of a quorum and may vote at any meeting of the Board of Directors of this
corporation for the purpose of authorizing any such contract or transaction with
like force and effect as if he were not so interested, or were not a director,
member of officer of such other corporation, firm, association or partnership,
provided that any vote with respect to such contract or transaction must be
adopted by a majority of the Directors then in office who have no interest in
such contract or transaction.

        9.      AMENDMENTS. These By-Laws may be amended by the affirmative vote
of the holders of a majority of the shares of each class of capital stock at the
time outstanding and entitled to vote at any annual or special meeting of
stockholders, provided that notice of the substance of the proposed amendment is
stated in the notice of such meeting. If authorized by the Articles of
Organization, the Directors, by a majority of their number then in office, may
also make, amend or repeal these By-Laws, in whole or in part, except with
respect to (a) the provisions of these By-Laws governing (i) the removal of
Directors, (ii) the indemnification of Directors and (iii) the amendment of
these By-Laws and (b) any provision of these By-Laws which by law, the Articles
of Organization or these By-Laws requires action by the stockholders.

                Not later than the time of giving notice of the meeting of
stockholders next following the making, amending or repealing by the Directors
of any By-Law, notice thereof stating the substance of such change shall be
given to all stockholders entitled to vote on amending the By-Laws.



                                      -21-


<PAGE>   22


        Any By-Law adopted by the Directors may be amended or repealed by the
stockholders entitled to vote on amending the By-Laws.

        10.     MASSACHUSETTS CONTROL SHARE ACQUISITION ACT. The provisions of
Chapter 110D of the Massachusetts General Laws shall not apply to any "control
share acquisition" of the corporation (as such term is defined in such Chapter
110D).




                                      -22-



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>FY 98 BONUS PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    Exhibit 10.1

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                     ANALOG
                                     DEVICES

                                 FY98 BONUS PLAN

                          Sharing the Company's Success





                                             -     TEAMWORK

                                             -     IMPROVEMENT

                                             -     REWARD

                                             -     CONTRIBUTION





Analog Devices is committed to sharing its success with the people who make it
possible -- our employees. The aim of the Bonus Plan is to encourage
participation by all of us in achieving company goals and to share the rewards
of our success.

                          Ray Stata                  Jerry Fishman
                          Chairman                   President


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              U.S.-BASED EMPLOYEES


<PAGE>   2



PURPOSE OF THE BONUS PLAN The intent of ADI's Corporate Bonus Plan is to
encourage employees to work together toward the company-wide goal of strong
financial performance. Continuous improvement in the Company's performance,
which can be influenced by all employees, results in a reward for employees and
ADI shareholders alike.

MEASURING ANALOG'S SUCCESS In FY1998 the Corporate Bonus Plan design will
continue to focus attention on both profitability, as measured by Operating
Profit Before Taxes (OPBT), and sales growth. In order for ADI to become a
multi-billion dollar company, rapid growth as well as sustained profitability
are both equally critical success factors. The FY1998 Bonus payment formula is
designed to emphasize the importance of these goals.

FY1997 BONUS AND FY1998 GOALS During FY1997 Analog earned Net Income of
$178million and paid $25million in bonuses to its employees. During a difficult
year ADI's financial performance was good, as a result of the significant
efforts made by employees. This level of bonus payment represented a significant
level of profit sharing with employees.

For FY1998 we believe that the opportunity exists for sales growth to resume at
20-25% above last year's levels. This level of growth would result in net income
more than 30% greater than that in FY1997.

If this goal is achieved, employees will see about a 50% increase in their bonus
payments over FY1997.

BONUS PAYMENT FORMULA The level at which the FY1998 ADI Bonus Plan will
potentially pay has been altered to better respond to the critical business
goals established by the Senior Management Team. As such, the payout "curve"
will now produce a 2.0x target payout when the combination of OPBT and revenue
growth equals 25%, rather than the previous formula which would have produced a
2.0x payout at the 20% combined level. This change recognizes the fact that
there is both the opportunity and the imperative to achieve this level of
performance in the product areas and markets we serve, in order to be
competitive and maintain ADI's position as both a technology leader and also as
an above average company in which to invest. The maximum Bonus payout factor
remains 2.5 times target.

The enclosed chart illustrates how the revised bonus formula works in relation
to business results.

One-half of the Bonus payout factor is driven by sales growth over the same
period last year, and one-half by Operating Profit in the Bonus Period. For
bonus purposes, Bonus Period 1 consists of Q1 and Q2, and Bonus Period 2
consists of Q3 and Q4. A bonus will be paid semiannually, in June and December,
if Analog's




<PAGE>   3


performance is sufficient to earn a bonus. The payout factor is determined by
combining the sales growth rate and the OPBT level for the period. For example,
if sales growth for Q1/Q2 were 15% and OPBT 20%, then the combined payout factor
for the period would be 1.4 times target.

YOUR BONUS TARGET Your ADI Bonus Target is based upon your job grade level. This
target represents a percentage of your regular earnings paid during the bonus
period. The bonus targets are:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
          GRADE LEVEL              BONUS         POTENTIAL   
                                  TARGET           RANGE     
          <S>                       <C>           <C>
          Non-Exempt                 4%           0 - 10%    
          E02 - E06                  4%           0 - 10%    
          E07 - E08                  6%           0 - 15%    
          E09 - E10                  8%           0 - 20%    
          E11 - E14                 15%           0 - 38%    
          E15 - E16                 20%           0 - 50%    
                                        
</TABLE>

YOUR BONUS PAYMENT

At the end of each bonus period, a payout factor is computed from the payout
model based upon OPBT and sales growth for the period. When ADI's business
results warrant it, you will receive a bonus payment. The payment is calculated
by multiplying your accumulated regular earnings paid in the bonus period by the
bonus target that corresponds to your job grade level in effect at the end of
the bonus period. The product of that calculation is then multiplied by the
payout factor to provide the gross bonus payment amount.

                                     EXAMPLE

Accumulated regular earnings
for the Bonus Period                =                    $15,000

Bonus target percent                =                         4%

Payout factor for
the Bonus Period                    =                       1.50

Gross bonus (before tax) payment:

$15,000 x 4% x 1.50 = $900.00

Included in regular earnings are the following pay categories:

          -  Base pay                  -  Holiday pay                    
          -  Shift differential        -  Bereavement pay                
          -  Sick pay                  -  Jury duty pay                  
          -  Vacation pay              -  Alternative work schedule pay  
                                                                         

Excluded from the Bonus Plan are:

- -   Overtime pay
- -   Bonus payments received from a previous bonus period
- -   Other payments which are taxable but not considered regular earnings.


WHO'S ELIGIBLE?

Most ADI employees participate in the Bonus Plan. New employees are immediately
eligible to participate in the Plan with no waiting period.




                                       -2-

<PAGE>   4


The following situations may EXCLUDE an employee from Bonus payment eligibility:

- -    Employee is already covered under a field sales, field applications
     engineering or other incentive program

- -    Employee terminates employment prior to the last day of the bonus period

- -    Employee receives a Marginal performance rating during the bonus period

- -    Employee receives a final written warning during the bonus period

- -    Co-op student or intern Temporary employee.

ADI BONUS: A PART OF TOTAL COMPENSATION

The ADI Bonus Plan is only one component of your total compensation package,
along with base pay/merit increase and benefits programs. The Bonus program,
together with the base pay/merit increase program, make up your total annual
cash compensation. The bonus is the most variable component of your total
package.

ADI's total annual cash compensation strategy is to pay at above average pay
levels for above average performance. This strategy relates to both individual
and company performance.

Our base pay/merit increase and benefits programs are designed to maintain
individual base pay rates and benefits at a level competitive with those of
other employers. Then, when company performance warrants a bonus payment, the
additional money it provides moves your total annual cash compensation to a
higher level.



                                       -3-


<PAGE>   5


                              WE CAN HAVE AN IMPACT

Everyone can influence sales growth and profitability by improving customer
satisfaction, minimizing waste and controlling expenses. Each person's
initiative is important. TQM can provide tools for identifying and implementing
important improvements.

There are two ways to further sustain and grow operating profit by increasing
sales revenues and/or decreasing expenses. Increasing sales revenues is not just
the job of the sales force.

                            QUESTIONS ABOUT THE BONUS

WHY WAS THE BONUS PAYMENT FORMULA CHANGED?

ADI's bonus program design should reflect both the important business goals for
this fiscal year as well as the competitive market in which our business
operates. Further increases to OPBT and the setting of aggressive sales revenue
growth goals reflect those performance measures that are considered critical
focuses for the future competitive position of the company.


WHEN WILL I RECEIVE MY BONUS PAYMENT?

Bonus checks are issued approximately six weeks after the close of the bonus
period and the formal announcement of a bonus payment for the period.


WILL MY BONUS PAYMENTS BE ELIGIBLE FOR TIP OR THE EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN?

If you currently contribute to TIP, deductions will be taken from your bonus
payments. Bonus payments will also be included in the calculation of the company
contributions to that program. Deductions are not taken for the ESPP.


WHAT IF MY JOB GRADE AND BONUS TARGET CHANGE DURING THE BONUS PERIOD?

Delivering well-designed, high-quality products on time is a company-wide
effort. Similarly, everyone can play a role in reducing expenses.

Working together, we can have an impact -- whether it's improving processes to
increase customer satisfaction or finding ways to cut waste and reduce expenses.
The daily improvements we can make ultimately add up to affect the "bottom
line."

Your bonus payment will be based on the job grade effective at the end of the
bonus period.


WHAT IF I CHANGE WORK SHIFTS?

Because shift differential paid during the bonus period is included as part of
your earnings for the bonus calculation, your bonus payment will already take
into consideration any shift differential earnings that you may have for the
period.



                                       -4-


<PAGE>   6


WHAT IF I TRANSFER BUSINESS UNITS OR CHANGE STATUS BETWEEN FULL-TIME AND
PART-TIME?

If you transfer between business units, your earnings records transfer with you.
Since your bonus payment is based on your accumulated paid earnings for the
bonus period, your bonus calculation will take into account any change in
reporting organization or change-in such (such as part-time to full-time or
full-time to part-time).


WHAT IF I AM ON A LEAVE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY FOR PART OF THE BONUS PERIOD?

The bonus is paid based on your earnings while actively at work during the
period (not on short-term disability, long-term disability or other leave of
absence). So, any pay received during your leave of absence will be excluded
from your accumulated paid earnings for bonus calculation purposes.




                                       -5-


<PAGE>   7


                              Analog Devices, Inc.

                           FY 1998 BONUS PAYOUT CURVE


          [Chart depicting OPBT/Growth Results and Bonus Payout Factor]









<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   AVERAGE OF YEAR-TO-YEAR SALES
    GROWTH AND OPERATING PROFIT                 BONUS PAYOUT FACTOR
          AS A % OF SALES
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                <S>                                     <C>                                     
                 5.0%                                   0.3
                10.0%                                   0.8
                15.0%                                   1.2
                20.0%                                   1.6
                25.0%                                   2.0
                30.0%                                   2.4
                 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                     12/5/97


                                       -6-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.6
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>1992 DIRECTOR OPTION PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.6

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                            1992 DIRECTOR OPTION PLAN



1.      PURPOSE

        The purpose of this 1992 Director Option Plan (the "Plan") of Analog
Devices, Inc. (the "Company") is to encourage ownership in the Company by
outside directors of the Company whose continued services are considered
essential to the Company's future progress and to provide them with a further
incentive to remain as directors of the Company.

2.      ADMINISTRATION

        The Board of Directors shall supervise and administer the Plan. Grants
of stock options under the Plan and the amount and nature of the awards to be
granted shall be automatic and non-discretionary in accordance with Section 5.
However, all questions of interpretation of the Plan or of any options issued
under it shall be determined by the Board of Directors and such determination
shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan.

3.      PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN

        Directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company shall be eligible to participate in the Plan.

4.       STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN

        (a)     The maximum number of shares which may be issued under the Plan
shall be one hundred thousand (100,000) shares of the Company's Common Stock,
par value $.16-2/3 per share ("Common Stock"), subject to adjustment as provided
in Section 9 of the Plan.

        (b)     If any outstanding option under the Plan for any reason expires
or is terminated without having been exercised in full, the shares allocable to
the unexercised portion of such option shall again become available for grant
pursuant to the Plan.

        (c)     All options granted under the Plan shall be non-statutory
options not entitled to special tax treatment under Section 422 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, as amended to date and as may be amended from time to time
(the "Code").



                                       -1-


<PAGE>   2


5.      TERMS, CONDITIONS AND FORM OF OPTIONS

        Each option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written
agreement in such form as the Board of Directors shall from time to time
approve, which agreements shall comply with and be subject to the following
terms and conditions:

        (a)     OPTION GRANT DATES. Options shall be granted automatically to
all eligible directors at the close of business on the date the Plan is approved
by the Board of Directors; provided that the grant of such options is
conditioned upon approval of the Plan by stockholders of the Company at the
Company's 1993 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Thereafter, options shall be
granted automatically to persons who subsequently become eligible directors on
the close of business on the date of his or her initial election or appointment
to the Board of Directors; provided that any option granted prior to the
approval of the Plan by stockholders of the Company at the Company's 1993 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders is conditioned upon such approval of the Plan by
stockholders of the Company.

        (b)     SHARES SUBJECT TO OPTION. Each option granted under the Plan
shall be exercisable for 10,000 shares of Common Stock.

        (c)     OPTION EXERCISE PRICE. The option exercise price per share for
each option granted under the Plan shall equal (i) the last reported sales price
per share of the Company's Common Stock, as listed on a nationally recognized
securities exchange, on the date of grant (or, if no such price is reported on
such date, such price as reported on the nearest preceding day); or (ii) the
fair market value of the stock on the date of grant, as determined by the Board
of Directors, if the Common Stock is not publicly traded.

        (d)     OPTIONS NON-TRANSFERABLE. Each option granted under the Plan by
its terms shall not be transferable by the optionee otherwise than by will, or
by the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a qualified domestic
relations order (as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code), and shall be
exercised during the lifetime of the optionee only by him. No option or interest
therein may be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated by the optionee
during his lifetime, whether by operation of law or otherwise, or be made
subject to execution, attachment or similar process.

        (e)     EXERCISE PERIOD. Except as otherwise provided in this Plan, no
option may be exercised prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant of
such option. Each option may be exercised on a cumulative basis as to one-third
of the shares subject to the option on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary
of the date of grant of such option, PROVIDED that, subject to the provisions of
Section 5(f), no option may be exercised more than 90 days after the optionee
ceases to serve as a director of the Company. No option shall be exercisable
after the expiration of ten (10) years from


                                       -2-


<PAGE>   3


the date of grant or prior to approval of the Plan by the stockholders of the
Company.

        (f)     EXERCISE PERIOD UPON DEATH OR DISABILITY. Notwithstanding the
provisions of Section 5(e), any option granted under the Plan:

                (i)     may be exercised in full by an optionee who becomes
        disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code or any
        successor provision thereto) while serving as a director of the Company;
        or

                (ii)    may be exercised

                        (x)     in full upon the death of an optionee while
                serving as a director of the Company, or

                        (y)     to the extent then exercisable upon the death of
                an optionee within 90 days of ceasing to serve as a director of
                the Company,

        by the person to whom it is transferred by will, by the laws of descent
        and distribution, or by written notice filed pursuant to Section 5(i);

in each such case within the period of one year after the date the optionee
ceases to be such a director by reason of such death or disability; provided,
that no option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from
the date of grant or prior to the approval of the Plan by the stockholders of
the Company.

        (g)     EXERCISE PROCEDURE. Options may be exercised only by written
notice to the Company at its principal office accompanied by payment of the full
consideration for the shares as to which they are exercised.

        (h)     PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE. Options granted under the Plan may
provide for the payment of the exercise price (i) by delivery of cash or a check
to the order of the Company in an amount equal to the exercise price of such
options or, (ii) to the extent provided in the applicable option agreement, by
delivery to the Company of shares of Common Stock of the Company already owned
by the optionee having a fair market value equal in amount to the exercise price
of the options being exercised, or (iii) by any combination of such methods of
payment. The fair market value of any shares of the Company's Common Stock or
other non-cash consideration which may be delivered upon exercise of an option
shall be determined by the Board of Directors.

        (i)     EXERCISE BY REPRESENTATIVE FOLLOWING DEATH OF DIRECTOR. A
director, by written notice to the Company, may designate one or more persons
(and from time to



                                       -3-


<PAGE>   4


time change such designation) including his legal representative, who, by reason
of his death, shall acquire the right to exercise all or a portion of the
option. If the person or persons so designated wish to exercise any portion of
the option, they must do so within the term of the option as provided herein.
Any exercise by a representative shall be subject to the provisions of the Plan.

6.      ASSIGNMENTS

        The rights and benefits under the Plan may not be assigned except for
the designation of a beneficiary as provided in Section 5.

7.      TIME FOR GRANTING OPTIONS

        All options for shares subject to the Plan shall be granted, if at all,
not later than five (5) years after the approval of the Plan by the Company's
stockholders.

8.      LIMITATION OF RIGHTS.

        (a)     NO RIGHT TO CONTINUE AS A DIRECTOR. Neither the Plan, nor the
granting of an option nor any other action taken pursuant to the Plan, shall
constitute or be evidence of any agreement or understanding, express or implied,
that the Company will retain a director for any period of time.

        (b)     NO STOCKHOLDERS' RIGHTS FOR OPTIONS. An optionee shall have no
rights as a stockholder with respect to the shares covered by his options until
the date of the issuance to him of a stock certificate therefor, and no
adjustment will be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date
is prior to the date such certificate is issued.

9.      CHANGES IN COMMON STOCK

        (a)     If (x) the outstanding shares of Common Stock are increased,
decreased or exchanged for a different number or kind of shares or other
securities of the Company, or (y) additional shares or new or different shares
or other securities of the Company or other non-cash assets are distributed with
respect to such shares of Common Stock or other securities, through or as a
result of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of the
assets of the Company, reorganization, recapitalization, reclassification, stock
dividend, stock split, reverse stock split or other similar transaction with
respect to such shares of Common Stock, or other securities, an appropriate and
proportionate adjustment shall be made in (i) the maximum number and kind of
shares reserved for issuance under the Plan, and (ii) the number and kind of
shares or other securities subject to then outstanding options under the Plan
and (iii) the price for each share subject to any then outstanding options under
the Plan, without changing the aggregate purchase price


                                       -4-


<PAGE>   5


as to which such options remain exercisable. No fractional shares will be issued
under the Plan on account of any such adjustments. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no adjustment shall be made pursuant to this Section 9 if such
adjustment would cause the Plan to fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 or any
successor rule promulgated pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

        (b)     In the event that the Company is merged or consolidated into or
with another corporation (in which consolidation or merger the stockholders of
the Company receive distributions of cash or securities of another issuer as a
result thereof), or in the event that all or substantially all of the assets of
the Company is acquired by any other person or entity, or in the event of a
reorganization or liquidation of the Company, the Board of Directors of the
Company, or the board of directors of any corporation assuming the obligations
of the Company, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 10, as to
outstanding options, take one or more of the following actions: (i) provide that
such options shall be assumed, or equivalent options shall be substituted, by
the acquiring or succeeding corporation (or an affiliate thereof), (ii) upon
written notice to the optionees, provide that all unexercised options will
terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such transaction unless
exercised by the optionee within a specified period following the date of such
notice, or (iii) if, under the terms of a merger transaction, holders of the
Common Stock of the Company will receive upon consummation thereof a cash
payment for each share surrendered in the merger (the "Merger Price"), make or
provide for a cash payment to the optionees equal to the difference between (A)
the Merger Price times the number of shares of Common Stock subject to such
outstanding options (to the extent then exercisable at prices not in excess of
the Merger Price) and (B) the aggregate exercise price of all such outstanding
options in exchange for the termination of such options.

10.     CHANGE IN CONTROL

        Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Plan, in the
event of a Change of Control (as defined below), all options outstanding as of
the date such Change in Control occurs shall become exercisable in full, whether
or not exercisable in accordance with their terms. A "Change in Control" shall
occur or be deemed to have occurred only if any of the following events occur:
(i) any "person," as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (other than the Company, any
trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of
the Company, or any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders
of the Company in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock
of the Company) is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Company representing 50% or more of the combined voting power
of the Company's then outstanding securities; (ii) individuals who, as of July
1, 1992, constitute the Board of Directors of the Company (as of the date



                                       -5-


<PAGE>   6


thereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a
majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a director subsequent
to the date thereof whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's
stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors
then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an election or nomination of an
individual whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or
threatened election contest relating to the election of the directors of the
Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934) shall be, for purposes of this Agreement,
considered as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; (iii) the
stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company
with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would
result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior
thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 50% of the
combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving
entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (B) a
merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company
(or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires
more than 30% of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
securities; or (iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets."

11.     AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN

        The Board of Directors may suspend or discontinue the Plan or review or
amend it in any respect whatsoever; provided, however, that without approval of
the stockholders of the Company no revision or amendment shall change the number
of shares subject to the Plan (except as provided in Section 9), change the
designation of the class of directors eligible to receive options, or materially
increase the benefits accruing to participants under the Plan. The Plan may not
be amended more than once in any six-month period.

12.     WITHHOLDING

        The Company shall have the right to deduct from payments of any kind
otherwise due to the optionee any federal, state or local taxes of any kind
required by law to be withheld with respect to any shares issued upon exercise
of options under the Plan.

13.     EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF THE PLAN

        (a)     EFFECTIVE DATE. The Plan shall become effective when adopted by
the Board of Directors, but no option granted under the Plan shall become
exercisable



                                       -6-


<PAGE>   7


unless and until the Plan shall have been approved by the Company's
shareholders. If such shareholder approval is not obtained within twelve months
after the date of the Board's adoption of the Plan, all options granted under
the Plan shall terminate and no further options shall be granted under the Plan.
Amendments to the Plan not requiring shareholder approval shall become effective
when adopted by the Board of Directors; amendments requiring shareholder
approval (as provided in Section 11) shall become effective when adopted by the
Board of Directors, but no option granted after the date of such amendment shall
become exercisable (to the extent that such amendment to the Plan was required
to enable the Company to grant such option to a particular optionee) unless and
until such amendment shall have been approved by the Company's shareholders. If
such shareholder approval is not obtained within twelve months of the Board's
adoption of such amendment, any options granted on or after the date of such
amendment shall terminate to the extent that such amendment to the Plan was
required to enable the Company to grant such option to a particular optionee.
Subject to this limitation, options may be granted under the Plan at any time
after the effective date and before the date fixed for termination of the Plan.

        (b)     TERMINATION. Unless sooner terminated in accordance with Section
9, the Plan shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) the close of business on the
day next preceding the fifth anniversary of the date of its approval by the
Company's stockholders, or (ii) the date on which all shares available for
issuance under the Plan shall have been issued pursuant to the exercise or
cancellation of options granted under the Plan. If the date of termination is
determined under (i) above, then options outstanding on such date shall continue
to have force and effect in accordance with the provisions of the instruments
evidencing such options.

14.     NOTICE

        Any written notice to the Company required by any of the provisions of
the Plan shall be addressed to the Treasurer of the Company and shall become
effective when it is received.

15.     COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 16B-3

        Transactions under the Plan are intended to comply with all applicable
conditions of Rule 16b-3 or its successor promulgated pursuant to Section 16 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. To the extent any provision of the Plan or
action by the Board of Directors in administering the Plan fails to so comply,
it shall be deemed null and void, to the extent permitted by law and deemed
advisable by the Board of Directors.



                                       -7-

<PAGE>   8


16.     GOVERNING LAW

        The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto
shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.



                                       Approved by the Board of Directors on
                                       September 11, 1992



                                       -8-



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.8
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>AMENDED AND RESTATED LEASE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                    EXHIBIT 10.8

                              AMENDED AND RESTATED
                                      LEASE



        Reference is made to a Lease dated May 28, 1980 by and between Francis
J. Perry, Jr. and William J. Walker, as Trustees of Everett Street Trust
established under Declaration of Trust dated May 9, 1980 as "Landlord" and
Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation, as "Tenant", as amended by
First Amendment to Lease between Landlord and Tenant (as amended, the "Lease").

        For consideration paid, Landlord and Tenant hereby amend and restate the
Lease in its entirety as follows:


                                    ARTICLE I

                                 REFERENCE DATA


1.1     SUBJECTS REFERRED TO.

        Each reference in this Lease to any of the following subjects shall be
construed to incorporate the data stated for that subject in this Section 1.1.

        Date of this Lease: as of May 1, 1992

        Premises: Two parcels of land containing approximately 25 acres in
Norwood, Massachusetts, together with the improvements constructed or to be
constructed thereon, and any appurtenant rights thereto all being more
specifically described in and shown on EXHIBITS A and A-1 attached hereto.

Landlord:                             Francis J. Perry Jr. and
                                      William J. Walker, as Trustees of Everett
                                      Street Trust u/d/t dated May 9, 1980

Original Address of Landlord:         P.O. Box 158
                                      Islington, Massachusetts 02090

Landlord's Construction
Representative:                       Francis J. Perry, Jr.

Tenant:                               Analog Devices, Inc.

Original Address of Tenant:           One Technology Way




<PAGE>   2


                                P.O. Box 9106
                                Norwood, Massachusetts 02062-9106
                                Attn: Chief Financial Officer

Tenant's Construction
Representative:                 Ronald White

Lender:                         Initially, First National Bank of Boston, then
                                any institutional lender holding a first
                                mortgage on the Premises, of whose name
                                and address Tenant has been notified.

Term:                           A period of time commencing on the
                                Commencement Date and ending fifteen (15)
                                years hereafter, as the same may be extended
                                as provided in Article XI hereof.

Fixed    Rent:                  As set forth on EXHIBIT B attached hereto.

Permitted Uses:                 Office, light manufacturing, research and
                                development and warehousing use.

Public Liability
Insurance Limits:

         Bodily Injury:         $1,000,000
         Property Damage:       $1,000,000


1.2     EXHIBITS.

        The Exhibits listed below in this section are incorporated in this Lease
by reference and are to be construed as a part of this Lease:

        EXHIBIT A.            Description of Premises.
        EXHIBIT A-1.          Plan showing the Premises, including appurtenances
                              thereto.
        EXHIBIT B.            Rent Schedule.
        EXHIBIT C.            Description of Improvement Work.
        EXHIBIT D.            Title and Encumbrances.
        EXHIBIT E-1           Schedule of principal paydown
                              percentages for expansion option.
        EXHIBIT E-2           Schedule of principal paydown amounts.
        EXHIBIT F             Schedule of option prices.

                                               

                                       -2-


<PAGE>   3


1.3     TABLE OF ARTICLES AND SECTIONS.

ARTICLE I - REFERENCE DATA..................................................  1

     1.1    Subjects Referred To............................................  1

     1.2    Exhibits........................................................  2

     1.3    Table of Articles and Sections..................................  3

ARTICLE II - PREMISES AND TERM..............................................  8

     2.1    Premises........................................................  8

     2.2    Term............................................................  8

     2.3    Commencement Date...............................................  8

ARTICLE III - IMPROVEMENTS..................................................  9

     3.1    Plans and Specifications........................................  9

     3.2    Performance of Work and Approval of Tenant's Work............... 10

     3.3    Intentionally Deleted........................................... 11

     3.4    Landlord's Right of Inspection.................................. 11

     3.5    Construction Representatives.................................... 12

     3.6    Intentionally Deleted........................................... 12

     3.7    Changes in Scope of Tenant's Work............................... 12

     3.8    Permanent Mortgage.............................................. 13

ARTICLE IV - RENT........................................................... 15

     4.1    The Fixed Rent.................................................. 15

     4.2    Additional Rent................................................. 15

            4.2.1    Real Estate Taxes...................................... 15
                                                                              

                                       -3-


<PAGE>   4


     4.2.2  Betterment Assessments.......................................... 17

     4.2.3  Tax Fund Payments............................................... 19

     4.2.4  Insurance....................................................... 19

     4.2.5  Utilities....................................................... 22

ARTICLE V - TENANT'S ADDITIONAL COVENANTS................................... 23

     5.1    Affirmative Covenants........................................... 23

            5.1.1    Perform Obligations.................................... 23

            5.1.2    Use.................................................... 23

            5.1.3    Repair and Maintenance................................. 23

            5.1.4    Compliance with Law.................................... 24

            5.1.5    Payment for Tenant's Work.............................. 24

            5.1.6    Indemnity.............................................. 25

            5.1.7    Right to Enter......................................... 25

            5.1.8    Personal Property at Tenant's Risk..................... 25

            5.1.9    Payment of Landlord's Cost of Enforcement.............. 26

            5.1.10   Yield Up............................................... 26

            5.1.11   Estoppel Certificate................................... 27

     5.2    Negative Covenants.............................................. 27

            5.2.1    Assignment and Subletting.............................. 27

            5.2.2    Overloading and Nuisance............................... 28

            5.2.3    Installation, Alterations or Additions................. 28

                                                                              

                                       -4-


<PAGE>   5


ARTICLE VI - LANDLORD'S COVENANTS........................................... 31

     6.1     Affirmative Covenants.......................................... 31

ARTICLE VII - CASUALTY AND EMINENT DOMAIN................................... 32

     7.1     Casualty Loss.................................................. 32

     7.2     Taking......................................................... 34

ARTICLE VIII - DEFAULTS..................................................... 36

     8.1     Events of Default.............................................. 36

     8.2     Remedies....................................................... 37

     8.3     Remedies Cumulative............................................ 38

     8.4     Landlord's Right to Cure Defaults.............................. 39

     8.5     Tenant's Right to Cure Default................................. 39

     8.6     No Waiver, etc................................................. 40

     8.7     No Accord and Satisfaction..................................... 41

ARTICLE IX - MORTGAGEE'S RIGHTS............................................. 41

     9.1     Superiority of Lease........................................... 41

ARTICLE X -  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS....................................... 42

     10.1    Notices from One Party to the Other............................ 42

     10.2    Quiet Employment............................................... 43

     10.3    Lease not to be Recorded....................................... 43

     10.4    Successors and Assigns......................................... 43

     10.5    Acts of God.................................................... 43

     10.6    Landlord's Default............................................. 44
                                                                             


                                       -5-


<PAGE>   6


     10.7    Brokerage...................................................... 44

     10.8    Consents and Approvals......................................... 45

     10.9    Applicable Law and Construction................................ 45

     10.10   Entire Agreement............................................... 45

ARTICLE XI - TENANT'S OPTIONS............................................... 45

     11.1    Options to Extend.............................................. 45

     11.2    Option to Expand............................................... 47

     11.3    Options to Purchase............................................ 56

     11.4    Right of First Refusal......................................... 61

     11.5    Purchase Rights Following Eminent Domain....................... 63
                                                                             



                                       -6-


<PAGE>   7


                                   ARTICLE II

                                PREMISES AND TERM

        2.1     PREMISES. Landlord hereby leases to Tenant and Tenant hereby
leases from Landlord, subject to and with the benefit of the terms, covenants,
conditions and provisions of this Lease, the Premises, together with appurtenant
rights as shown on EXHIBIT A-1 and described in EXHIBIT A.

        2.2     TERM. TO HAVE AND TO HOLD for a period of time beginning on the
Commencement Date and continuing for the Term, unless sooner terminated as
hereinafter provided.

        2.3     COMMENCEMENT DATE. The Commencement Date shall be the earlier of
May 1, 1992 or the date (a) ten (10) days after the date on which all of the
following conditions have been met: (i) all of the work required to be performed
by Tenant on the interior of, and on the main entrance to, the existing building
on the Premises pursuant to EXHIBIT C has been substantially completed; (ii)
Landlord shall have received a certificate from Tenant's Construction
Representative certifying such substantial completion; (iii) a Certificate of
Occupancy has been issued by the Town of Norwood permitting the occupancy of the
entire existing building on the Premises for the Permitted Uses containing no
exceptions which interfere with the use of the Premises for the Permitted Uses;
or (b) Tenant commences operations of its business in the entire existing
building on the Premises (such date as derived from either clause (a) or (b)
above, hereinafter the 'Substantial Completion Date"). The term "substantially
completed" as used herein shall mean that the work to be performed by


                                       -7-


<PAGE>   8


Tenant pursuant to EXHIBIT C has been completed, with the exception of minor
items which can be fully completed without material interference with Tenant's
use and occupancy of the entire existing building on the Premises for the
Permitted Uses and other items which, because of the season or weather or the
nature of the item, are not practicable to do at the time, provided that none of
such items is necessary to make the Premises tenantable for the Permitted Uses.
If the Substantial Completion Date occurs pursuant to clause (b) of this
Section, Tenant shall comply with those conditions in clause (a) for which it is
responsible as promptly as possible following the Substantial Completion Date.
Tenant shall as promptly as possible complete any uncompleted work, including
minor items and items which earlier were impracticable to perform. Additionally,
Tenant shall proceed as promptly as possible after issuance to eliminate any
exceptions contained in the Certificate of Occupancy.

        Upon occurrence of the Commencement Date, Landlord and Tenant shall
enter into a side letter acknowledging such date.

                                   ARTICLE III

                                  IMPROVEMENTS

        3.1     PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS. The parties acknowledge that EXHIBIT C
contains only a partial description of the plans and specifications for Tenant's
work on the Premises and agree that Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, a detailed
floor plan layout prepared at Tenant's expense (herein called "Tenant's Plans")
reflecting the partitions, improvements and finish for the renovation of the
existing building on the Premises to be performed by Tenant at Tenant's expense
(the "Improvement Work").


                                       -8-


<PAGE>   9


Additionally, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord other information (including
working drawings) showing the location of plumbing, fixtures, and other
installations required by Tenant as soon as such information is developed and
will arise Landlord of the cost to complete the Improvement Work shown on
Tenant's Plans (the "Cost of Improvements") by submitting to Landlord a project
budget for approval as soon as such costs are determined. Landlord shall notify
Tenant of Landlord's approval or disapproval of the Tenant's Plans and the Cost
of Improvements, within ten (10) business days after receipt thereof and if
Landlord fails to either approve or disapprove of Tenant's Plans and Cost of
Improvements within such timeframe, then such approval shall be deemed granted.
If Landlord approves the Tenant's Plans and the Cost of Improvements, Landlord
shall instruct Tenant to proceed with such work described in the approved
Tenant's Plans and such work shall be deemed included in Tenant's work set forth
in EXHIBIT C. If Landlord disapproves of Tenant's Plans or the Cost of
Improvements, Landlord will so notify Tenant and return such objectionable
drawings or budget within the time above specified with written reasons for such
disapproval.

        3.2     PERFORMANCE OF WORK AND APPROVAL OF TENANT'S WORK. Under the
supervision of an architect or engineer selected by Tenant and approved by
Landlord and Lender, Tenant shall cause to be performed the work described in
EXHIBIT C, as modified pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.7. All such work shall be
done in a good and workmanlike manner employing first quality materials and so
as to conform to all applicable building and zoning laws and all other
applicable laws, ordinances,



                                       -9-


<PAGE>   10


codes, regulations and orders of any authority having jurisdiction. Tenant shall
bear all responsibility for insuring that the Improvement Work conforms to the
requirements set forth in the preceding sentence. The Cost of Improvements shall
be funded by Tenant as the Improvement Work progresses.

        All final plans and specifications regarding the Improvement Work and
not already provided for in Section 3.1 including those set forth in EXHIBIT C,
and any revised or newly proposed plans adopted pursuant to Section 3.7, must be
reviewed and approved by Landlord before Tenant commences with the work therein.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.1 Landlord shall use diligent efforts
to approve such plans and specifications within ten (10) business days after
submission of such plans and specifications to Landlord by Tenant. If Landlord
fails to either approve or disapprove of such plans and specifications within
such time frame, then such approval shall be deemed granted. Tenant shall select
the general contractor to perform the Improvement Work, subject to approval by
Landlord which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. All
subcontractors having a subcontract in excess of $50,000.00 also shall be
pre-approved by Landlord, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.

        3.3     Intentionally Deleted.

        3.4     LANDLORD'S RIGHT OF INSPECTION. Landlord or its representatives
may enter upon the Premises during the progress of the work to inspect the
progress thereof and to determine of the work is being performed in accordance
with the requirements of this Article III.


                                      -10-


<PAGE>   11


        3.5     CONSTRUCTION REPRESENTATIVES. Each party authorizes the other to
rely in connection with plans and construction upon approval and other actions
on the party's behalf by any Construction Representative of the party named in
Section 1.1 or any person hereafter designated in substitution or addition by
written notice to the party relying.

        3.6     Intentionally Deleted.

        3.7     CHANGES IN SCOPE OF TENANT'S WORK. Tenant shall be allowed by
means of change orders ("Change Orders") to alter the nature and scope of the
work described in EXHIBIT C (including Tenant's Plans incorporated into EXHIBIT
C pursuant to Section 3.1) and shall be allowed to determine the nature and
scope of such work requirements. Change Orders requested by Tenant must be
submitted to Landlord and Lender, but to Lender only if Lender is providing
financing for the Improvement Work. for approval under the following
circumstances: (a) any single Change Order will increase the Cost of
Improvements by fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) or more; (b) the current
Change Order together with all previous Change Orders, will increase the Cost of
Improvements by more than one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00); (c)
the Change Order will alter the exterior dimensions of the existing building; or
(d) the Change Order will change the use of the Premises to make them suitable
only for a special purpose or otherwise affect the general quality. character or
utility of the Premises. Copies of all Change Orders for which approval is
required shall be delivered by Tenant to Landlord and Lender. If Lender shall
fail to respond to Tenant's request for approval within five (5) business days
following


                                      -11-


<PAGE>   12


receipt of such copies such approval shall be deemed granted. Tenant shall pay
any increase in the Cost of Improvements resulting from Change Orders in
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.2.

        3.8     PERMANENT MORTGAGE. Landlord has currently financed the premises
with a temporary $9,750,000 loan from the First National Bank of Boston. The
Tenant shall have the right to cause a permanent financing of the Premises by
means of a first mortgage loan (the "Mortgage Loan") from a Lender in an amount
not to exceed $9,750,000 and, if necessary, an additional loan (which additional
loan may be from Tenant). Additionally, during the Term of this Lease Tenant
also shall have the right to cause the Mortgage Loan (and any necessary
additional loan) to be refinanced from time to time. For purposes of this
Section 3.8, any financing, refinancing or additional loan caused by Tenant
shall be referred to as "Financing." Tenant shall have the right to cause a
Financing provided that each such Financing complies with the following terms
and conditions:

                (a)     Such Financing shall be on commercially reasonable terms
                for a commercial real estate loan;

                (b)     The Financing shall be non-recourse as to Landlord and
                any partners or beneficiaries of Landlord;

                (c)     There shall be no provision for equity participation by
                the lender and no provision, term or condition of such Financing
                shall or could adversely affect the value of the Premises in any
                material way;



                                      -12-


<PAGE>   13


                (d)     The Land Rent portion of Fixed Rent (as hereinafter
                defined) shall not be available to pay debt service (including
                both principal and interest) on the Financing; 

                (e)     All costs associated with the Financing including,
                without limitation, any prepayment penalty due shall be paid by
                Tenant; and

                (f)     The Financing shall not at any time have any material
                negative impact on Landlord, or any beneficiary or partner of
                Landlord, with respect to income tax or capital gain tax
                liabilities.

The condition contained in clause (f) above shall only apply in the event that
any proceeds from such Financing are distributed to Landlord or Tenant for
purposes other than paying off the existing Financing and reasonable transaction
costs in connection therewith, Landlord and Tenant agree to cooperate in
addressing and resolving any such negative impact which might be caused by the
Financing.

        Landlord shall not refinance the Mortgage Loan without Tenant's prior
written consent, which consent, notwithstanding any other provision of this
Lease to the contrary, may be withheld at Tenant's sole discretion. In the event
Landlord elects to refinance the Mortgage Loan with Tenant's consent, Tenant
shall not be responsible for any increase in debt service over existing debt
service on the Mortgage Loan caused thereby.


                                      -13-


<PAGE>   14


                                   ARTICLE IV

                                      RENT

        4.1     THE FIXED RENT. Tenant covenants and agrees to pay Fixed Rent as
follows. Tenant shall pay the Land Rent Portion of Fixed Rent to Landlord at the
Original Address of Landlord or to such other person or such other place as
Landlord may by notice in writing to Tenant from time to time direct in twelve
(12) equal installments on the first day of each calendar month included in the
Term; and for any portion of a calendar month at the beginning or end of the
Term, at the applicable rate payable in advance for such portion. Tenant shall
pay the Debt Service Portion of Fixed Rent directly to the Lender in accordance
with the debt service payment requirements of the financing.

        4.2     ADDITIONAL RENT. In order that the Fixed Rent shall be
absolutely net to Landlord, Tenant covenants and agrees to pay, as Additional
Rent, taxes, betterment assessments, insurance costs, and utilities' charges
with respect to the Premises as provided in this Section 4.2 as follows:

                4.2.1   REAL ESTATE TAXES. Tenant shall pay, directly to the
authority charged with collection thereof, all taxes levied or assessed by, or
becoming payable to the municipality or any governmental authority having
jurisdiction of the Premises, for or in respect of the Premises or which may
become a lien on the Premises, for each tax period wholly included in the Term,
all such payments to be made not less than five (5) days prior to the last date
on which the same may be paid without interest or penalty, and Tenant shall
promptly after payment thereof furnish



                                      -14-


<PAGE>   15


Landlord reasonable evidence of each such payment; provided that for any
fraction of a tax period included in the Term at the beginning or end thereof,
Tenant shall pay to Landlord, within ten (10) days after receipt of invoice
therefor, the fraction of taxes so levied or assessed or becoming payable which
is allocable to such included period and Landlord shall pay such taxes to the
authority charged with collection thereof. If Tenant shall deem itself aggrieved
by any such tax or charge and shall elect to contest the payment thereof, Tenant
may make such payment under protest or if postponement of such payment will not
jeopardize Landlord's title to the Premises, Tenant may postpone the same,
provided that it shall secure such payment and the interest and penalties
thereon and the costs of the contest by causing to be delivered to Landlord cash
or other security satisfactory to Landlord, in form and amount satisfactory to
Landlord, which amount shall not be greater than one hundred and ten percent
(110%) of the contested tax or charge. Landlord shall, at Tenant's request, pay
all or any part of such contested items out of any sums so delivered. When any
such contested items shall have been paid or cancelled, any sums so delivered
and not used for such payment shall be repaid to Tenant. Either party paying any
tax shall be entitled to recover, receive and retain for its own benefit all
abatements and refunds of such tax, unless it has previously been reimbursed by
the other party. Neither party shall settle or discontinue any abatement
proceedings begun by it without first giving the other party written notice of
its intent so to do and reasonable opportunity to go forward with or to be
substituted in such proceedings. Nothing contained in this Lease shall, however,
require Tenant to pay any franchise,


                                      -15-


<PAGE>   16


corporate, estate, inheritance, succession, capital levy or transfer tax of
Landlord, or any income, profits or revenue tax or charge upon the rent payable
by Tenant under this Lease; provided, however, that if, at any time during the
Term, under the laws of the United States or any state or political subdivision
thereof in which the Premises are situated, there shall be adopted some other
method of taxation on real estate as a substitute in whole or in part for taxes
on real estate as now constituted, such as a tax on the Fixed Rent, Additional
Rent or the other charges payable by Tenant hereunder, by whatever name called,
levied, assessed or imposed against Landlord or the Rent or other charges
payable hereunder to Landlord, (which substitute tax on the Fixed Rent,
Additional Rent, or other charges or other substitute method of taxation are
hereinafter collectively referred to as ("Substitute Taxes"), Tenant, to the
extent that such Substitute Taxes are means of raising revenue from real estate
shall pay Substitute Taxes as soon as the same shall become due and payable. In
the event that any such Substitute Taxes shall be based upon the income of
Landlord, then Tenant's obligation with respect to the aforesaid Substitute
Taxes shall be limited to the amount thereof as computed at the rates that would
be payable if the same were the sole taxable net income of Landlord.

                4.2.2   BETTERMENT ASSESSMENTS. Tenant shall pay, directly to
the authority charged with the collection thereof, each installment of all
public, special or betterment assessment levied or assessed by or becoming
payable to any municipality or other governmental authority having jurisdiction
of the Premises, for or in respect of the Premises for each installment period
partially or wholly included in the Term,



                                      -16-


<PAGE>   17


all such payments to be made not less than five (5) days prior to the last date
on which the same may be made without interest or penalty; provided, however,
that Tenant shall not be required to pay any such assessment resulting from work
done by the municipality or other governmental authority which is set forth in
EXHIBIT C (including Tenant's Plans incorporated into EXHIBIT C pursuant to
Section 3.1) as Improvement Work and provided also that for any fraction of an
installment period included in the Term at the end thereof, Tenant shall pay to
Landlord, within ten (10) days after receipt of invoice therefor, the fraction
of such installment allocable to such included period. Tenant shall promptly
after payment thereof furnish to Landlord reasonable evidence of each such
payment. Without postponing the foregoing payments, Tenant may prosecute
appropriate proceedings to contest the validity or amount of any assessment with
respect to which Tenant is required to make payments as hereinbefore provided,
such proceedings to be conducted jointly with any other parties, including
Landlord, who have contributed to the payment of such assessments, and Tenant
agrees to save Landlord harmless from all costs and expenses incurred on account
of Tenant's participation in such proceedings. Landlord, without obligating
itself to incur any costs or expenses in connection faith such proceedings,
shall cooperate with Tenant with respect to such proceedings so far as
reasonably necessary. Landlord shall promptly furnish to Tenant a copy of any
notice of any public, special or betterment assessment received by Landlord
concerning the Premises. Any refunds received on account of any assessment paid
by Tenant shall belong to Tenant.



                                      -17-


<PAGE>   18


                4.2.3   TAX FUND PAYMENTS. If and when requested by Lender,
Tenant shall as Additional Rent, on the first day of each month of the term,
make tax fund payments to Lender. "Tax fund payments" refer to such payments as
Lender shall reasonably determine to be sufficient to provide in the aggregate a
fund adequate to pay all taxes and assessments referred to in subsections 4.2.1
and 4.2.2 of this Section 4.2 when they become due and payable. If the aggregate
of said tax fund payments is not adequate to pay all said taxes and assessments,
Tenant shall pay to Lender the amount by which such aggregate is less than the
amount equal to all said taxes and assessments, such payment to be made on or
before the later of (a) ten (10) days after receipt by Tenant of written notice
from Lender of such amount, or (b) the fifteenth (15th) day prior to the last
day on which such taxes and assessments may be paid without interest or penalty.
If Tenant shall have made the aforesaid payments, Lender shall on or before the
last day on which the same may be paid without interest or penalty, pay to the
proper authority charged with the collection thereof all taxes and assessments
referred to in said subsections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 and furnish Tenant, upon
request, reasonable evidence of such payment. Any balance remaining after such
payment by Lender shall be accounted for to Tenant annually. All payments made
by Tenant pursuant to this subsection 4.2.3 shall, to the extent thereof,
relieve Tenant of its obligations under said subsections 4.2.1 and 4.2.2.

                4.2.4   INSURANCE. Tenant shall, as Additional Rent, take out
and maintain throughout the Term the following insurance:


                                      -18-


<PAGE>   19


                  4.2.4.1    Fire insurance on an all-risks basis, including
earthquake and flood, debris removal and demolition, and coverage for increased
costs of construction, if applicable, in an amount at least equal to the
replacement cost of the existing building on the Premises, as such replacement
cost may from time to time be determined by agreement or by appraisal made at
Tenant's expense by an accredited insurance appraiser approved by Landlord which
may be required by either party whenever three (3) years have elapsed since the
last such agreement or appraisal, or alterations or additions increasing cost
have been made.

                  4.2.4.2    Comprehensive liability insurance indemnifying 
Landlord and Tenant against all claims and demands for any injury to person or
property which may be claimed to have occurred on the Premises, in amounts which
shall, at the beginning of the Term, be at least equal to the limits set forth
in Section 1.1, and, from time to time during the Term, shall be for such higher
limits, if any, as are customarily carried in the area in which the Premises are
located on property similar to the Premises and used for similar purposes; and
workmen's compensation insurance with statutory limits covering all of Tenant's
employees working on the Premises.

                  4.2.4.3    Insurance against loss or damage from sprinklers 
and from leakage or explosion or cracking of boilers, pipes carrying steam or 
water, or both, pressure vessels or similar apparatus, in comprehensive form 
and in such amounts as Landlord may reasonably require, initially $1,000,000. 
Also, insurance



                                      -19-


<PAGE>   20


against such other hazards as may from time to time be reasonably required by
Lender.

               4.2.4.4    Policies of insurance required under the provisions 
of Section 4.2.4.1 and 4.2.4.3 shall name Landlord and Tenant, as their 
interests may appear, but shall, in case of loss, be first payable to Lender 
under a standard mortgagee's clause. If at any time there is no Lender, such 
policies shall instead be payable to a commercial bank or trust company in 
Massachusetts having combined capital and surplus of at least fifty million 
dollars ($50,000,000.00) selected by Tenant and approved by Landlord (the 
"Proceeds Trustee"). All such policies shall be obtained from responsible 
companies qualified to do business in Massachusetts and in good standing 
therein and shall be in a form and from a company approved by Lender. Each such
policy shall be non-cancelable without at least twenty (20) days' prior written
notice to Landlord and Lender. In the event provision for any such insurance is
to be by a blanket insurance policy the policy shall allocate a specific and 
sufficient amount of coverage to the Premises or otherwise provide that the 
Premises is insured up to 100% of its replacement value at all times and in all
circumstances. Upon request, Tenant shall furnish Landlord and Lender with a
copy of all insurance policies. Tenant shall furnish Landlord with certificates
from the insurance company stating that such policies and any renewals thereof
are in force with respect to the Premises prior to the beginning of the Term and
at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the policies they renew.


                                      -20-


<PAGE>   21


                4.2.4.5   All insurance which is carried by either party with
respect to the Premises, whether or not required, shall include provisions which
either designate the other party as one of the insured or deny to the insurer
acquisition by subrogation of rights of recovery against the other party to the
extent such rights have been waived by the insured party prior to occurrence of
loss or injury, insofar as, and to the extent that such provisions may be
effective without making it impossible to obtain insurance coverage from
responsible companies qualified to do business in Massachusetts (even though
extra premium may result therefrom). In the event that extra premium is payable
by either party as a result of this provision, the other party shall reimburse
the party paying such premium the amount of such extra premium. If at the
request of one party, this non-subrogation provision is waived, then the
obligation of reimbursement shall cease for such period of time as such waiver
shall be effective, but nothing contained in this subsection shall derogate from
or otherwise affect releases elsewhere herein contained of either party for
claims. Each party shall be entitled to have duplicates or certificates of any
policies containing such provisions. Each party hereby waives all rights of
recovery against the other for loss or injury against which the waiving party is
protected by insurance containing said provisions, reserving, however, any
rights with respect to any excess of loss or injury over the amount recovered by
such insurance. 

        4.2.5   UTILITIES. Tenant shall pay directly to the proper authorities
charged with the collection thereof all charges for water, sewer, gas,
electricity, telephone and other utilities or services used or consumed on the
Premises, whether


                                      -21-


<PAGE>   22


called charge, tax, assessment, fee or otherwise, including, without limitation,
water and sewer use charges and taxes, if any, all such charges to be paid as
the same from time to time become due.

                                    ARTICLE V

                          TENANT'S ADDITIONAL COVENANTS

        5.1     AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS. Tenant covenants at its expense at all
times during the Term and such further time as Tenant occupies the Premises or
any part thereof:

                5.1.1   PERFORM OBLIGATIONS. To perform promptly all of the
obligations of Tenant set forth in this Lease; and to pay when due the Fixed
Rent and Additional Rent and all charges, rates and other sums which by the
terms of this Lease are to be paid by Tenant.

                5.1.2   USE. To use the Premises only for the Permitted Uses.

                5.1.3   REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE. Except as otherwise provided in
Section 3.5 and Article VII, to keep the Premises including, without limitation,
the exterior and structure of all improvements thereon and all heating,
plumbing, electrical, air-conditioning, mechanical and other fixtures and
equipment therein in the same order, condition and repair as they are in on the
Commencement Date or may be put in during the Term, reasonable use and wear only
excepted, provided, however, that such exception shall not relieve Tenant of the
duty to keep the Premises in good and tenantable condition; to take good care of
all lawns and planted areas and keep in good repair and clean and neat and free
of snow and ice


                                      -22-


<PAGE>   23
all surfaced roadways, walks, and parking and loading areas; and to make all
repairs and replacements and to do all other work necessary for the foregoing
purposes whether the same may be ordinary or extraordinary, foreseen or
unforeseen.

                5.1.4   COMPLIANCE WITH LAW. To make all repairs, alterations,
additions or replacements to the Premises required by any law or ordinance or
any order or regulation of any public authority including the Americans with
Disabilities Act (42 USC 12182) and regulations published thereunder; to keep
the Premises equipped with all safety appliances so required; to obtain all
licenses and permits required by virtue of any special use by Tenant of the
Premises; and to comply with the orders and regulations of all governmental
authorities, except that Tenant may defer compliance so long as the validity of
any such law, ordinance, order or regulation shall be contested by Tenant in
good faith and by appropriate legal proceedings, if Tenant first gives Landlord
appropriate assurance against any loss, cost or expense on account thereof.

        Landlord covenants and agrees to comply with all such laws, regulations,
ordinances and orders which may apply to the Premises for reasons other than
Tenant's use thereof.

                5.1.5   PAYMENT FOR TENANT'S WORK. To pay promptly when due the
entire cost of any work to the Premises undertaken by Tenant so that the
Premises shall at all times be free of liens for labor and materials; to procure
all necessary permits before undertaking such work; to do all of such work in a
good and workmanlike manner, having first complied with the provisions of
Section 5.2.3


                                      -23-


<PAGE>   24


hereof, employing materials of good quality and complying with all governmental
requirements and to save Landlord harmless and indemnified from all injury,
loss, claims or damage to any person or property occasioned by or growing out of
such work.

                5.1.6   INDEMNITY. To assume exclusive control of the Premises,
and all tort liabilities incident to the control or leasing thereof, and to
defend, indemnify and save Landlord harmless from all injury, loss, claim or
damage to or of any person or property while on the Premises unless arising from
any omission, fault, negligence or other misconduct of Landlord or its agents,
employees or representatives.

                5.1.7   RIGHT TO ENTER. To permit Landlord, Lender and their
respective agents and prospective purchasers to enter into and examine the
Premises at reasonable times during Tenant's business hours, and, during the
last six (6) months of the Term, to keep affixed in suitable places notices of
availability of the Premises. No such entry shall be conducted in a manner which
disrupts the ordinary conduct of Tenant's business.

                5.1.8   PERSONAL PROPERTY AT TENANT'S RISK. That all of the
furnishings, fixtures, equipment, effects and property of every kind, nature and
description of Tenant and of all persons claiming by, through or under Tenant
which, during the continuance of this Lease or any occupancy of the Premises by
Tenant or anyone claiming under Tenant, may be on the Premises, shall be at the
sole risk and hazard of Tenant and if the whole or any part thereof shall be
destroyed or damaged by fire, water or otherwise, or by the leakage or bursting
of water pipes, steam pipes, or


                                      -24-


<PAGE>   25


other pipes, by theft or from any other cause. no part of said loss or damage is
to be charged to or to be borne by Landlord, except that Landlord shall in no
event be indemnified or held harmless or exonerated from any liability to Tenant
or to any other person, for any injury, loss, damage or liability to the extent
prohibited by law.

                5.1.9   PAYMENT OF LANDLORD'S COST OF ENFORCEMENT. To pay on
demand Landlord's expenses, including attorneys reasonable fees, incurred in
enforcing any obligation of Tenant under this Lease or in curing any default by
Tenant under this Lease as provided in Section 8.4. Landlord covenants to pay on
demand Tenant's expenses, including attorneys reasonable fees, incurred in
enforcing any obligation of Landlord under this Lease or in curing any default
by Landlord under this Lease as provided in Section 8.5.

                5.1.10  YIELD UP. At the expiration of the Term or earlier
termination of this Lease: to surrender all keys to the Premises, to remove all
of its trade fixtures and personal property in the Premises, to repair all
damage caused by such removal and to yield up the Premises (except for trade
fixtures and installations and improvements made by Tenant which Tenant elects
to remove), broom-clean and in the same good order and repair in which Tenant is
obliged to keep and maintain the Premises by the provisions of this Lease. Any
trade fixtures and personal property not so removed shall be deemed abandoned
and may be removed and disposed of by Landlord in such manner as Landlord shall
determine and Tenant shall pay Landlord the entire cost and expense incurred by
it in effecting such removal and disposition.


                                      -25-


<PAGE>   26


                5.1.11  ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE. Upon not less than fifteen (15)
days' prior written request by Landlord, to execute, acknowledge and deliver to
Landlord a statement in writing certifying that this Lease is unmodified and in
full force and effect and that Tenant knows of no defenses, offsets or
counterclaims against its obligations to pay the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent
and any other charges and to perform its other covenants under this Lease (or,
if there have been any modifications that the same is in full force and effect
as modified and stating the modifications and, if there are any defenses,
offsets or counterclaims, setting them forth in reasonable detail), and the
dates to which the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent and other charges have been
paid. Any such statement delivered pursuant to this Section 5.1.11 may be relied
upon by any prospective purchaser or mortgagee of the Premises, or any
prospective assignee of any such mortgage.

         5.2   NEGATIVE COVENANTS. Tenant covenants at all times during the
Term and such further time as Tenant occupies the Premises or any part thereof:

                5.2.1   ASSIGNMENT AND SUBLETTING. Tenant may assign, transfer,
mortgage or pledge this Lease, or sublet all or any portion of the Premises
without Landlord's consent provided such assignment, transfer, mortgage, pledge
or sublet expressly excludes any right of Tenant under this Lease to cause a
financing or refinancing of the Premises. Any attempted assignment, transfer,
mortgage, pledge or sublet purporting to assign, transfer, mortgage, pledge or
sublet Tenant's rights to cause a financing or refinancing of the Premises or
otherwise in violation of this Section 5.2.1 shall be void. Any assignee shall
be required to execute and deliver to


                                      -26-


<PAGE>   27


Landlord an agreement to perform and to be bound by all of the obligations of
Tenant under this Lease. No assignment, transfer, mortgage or sublease, whether
or not approved, and no indulgence granted by Landlord to any assignee shall in
any way impair the continuing primary liability (which after an assignment shall
be joint and several with the assignee) of Tenant hereunder. Any net profits
derived from an assignment or sublet shall be the property of Tenant. Tenant
shall promptly give Lender notice of any assignment of this Lease or any
subletting of the Premises or any portion thereof, which notice shall include
the effective date of the assignment or subletting and the name and address of
the assignee or sublessee and Tenant shall furnish Lender with such other
information relative thereto as Lender may reasonably request.

                5.2.2   OVERLOADING AND NUISANCE. Not to injure, overload,
deface or otherwise harm the Premises; nor make, allow or suffer any waste; nor
make any use of the Premises which is contrary to any law or ordinance or which
will invalidate any insurance on the Premises;

                5.2.3   INSTALLATION, ALTERATIONS OR ADDITIONS. Not to make any
installations, alterations or additions in, to or on the Premises except in
accordance with this subsection. Tenant shall have the right from time to time
during the Term to make, at its expense, alterations of and additions to the
building on the Premises and substitutions and replacements for such alterations
and additions (collectively "Alterations"), subject in all cases to the further
provisions of this subsection.


                                      -27-


<PAGE>   28


        No Alteration shall be made without Landlord's prior consent if: the
proposed Alteration would affect the exterior appearance of the building or the
structural portions thereof; or the proposed Alteration would change the general
character of the building or impair the usefulness of the Premises or reduce the
fair market value of the Premises below such value immediately before such
Alteration or diminish the net rentable area of the building. Each Alteration
which does not require Landlord's consent pursuant to this subsection is
hereinafter called a "permitted alteration". However, prior to commencing a
permitted alteration, Tenant shall notify Landlord in writing of each permitted
alteration the cost of which would exceed the higher of (a) $150,000 or (b) the
product of $150,000 multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the
Consumer's Price Index for all Urban Consumers as published for the City of
Boston by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U.S. Department of Labor (Base
Year 1985 = 100) for the most recent bi-monthly period ending next prior to the
date of the Alteration proposal and the denominator of which shall be such Index
as so published for the most recent bi-monthly period ending next prior to the
Commencement Date, which notice shall fully describe the nature of such
permitted alteration. If such Index is not then being published, the computation
shall be made using that Index specified by such Bureau or its successor
governmental agency as being most comparable thereto. In the event that the
permitted alteration would require unusual expense to readapt the Premises to
normal business office use upon termination of the Lease, Landlord shall have
the option to require Tenant to remove such permitted alteration upon the
termination of the Lease at Tenant's sole cost and



                                      -28-


<PAGE>   29


expense and otherwise in accordance with this Lease. Landlord shall notify
Tenant of its election to require Tenant to remove the permitted alteration and
restore the Premises within ten (10) business days of Landlord's receipt of
Tenant's notice.

        Except for permitted alterations: (1) each Alteration shall be made
under the supervision of an architect or engineer selected by Tenant and
approved by Landlord and Lender, and shall be made in accordance with detailed
plans and specifications prepared by such architect or engineer in accordance
with Article III hereof; and (2) copies of the plans and specifications for each
Alteration shall be delivered to Landlord and Lender and shall be subject to
Landlord's and Lender's prior written approval which shall be deemed to have
been given if neither Landlord nor Lender objects within fifteen (15) days of
receipt of the plans and specifications. Copies of any plans and specifications
developed for use in Alterations, whether or not requiring Landlord's approval,
and any information which Tenant is required to submit to the Town of Norwood
Building Department with regard to Alterations, shall be sent to Landlord and
Lender. All plans and specifications sent to Lender shall be clearly identified
as relating to the Premises.

        All Alterations shall be made by Tenant with reasonable diligence and
dispatch in a first-class manner and with first-class materials and workmanship.

        Before any Alterations are begun, Tenant shall procure, at its expense,
all necessary licenses, permits and approvals. Upon Tenant's request, Landlord
shall join in the Application for such licenses, permits, approvals and
authorizations whenever



                                      -29-


<PAGE>   30


such action is necessary but shall have no obligation to incur any out-of-pocket
expense in connection therewith.

        Promptly after the completion of any Alteration, Tenant shall procure,
at Tenant's expense, all such approvals by governmental authorities, if any, of
the completed Alteration as may be required by any applicable law or ordinance
or any applicable rule or regulation of governmental authorities, and all such
insurance organizations' approvals, if any, as may be required or customary in
connection therewith, and promptly deliver photocopies thereof to Landlord.

        Nothing contained in this Lease shall constitute any consent or request
by Landlord, express or implied, for the performance of any labor or services or
the furnishing of any materials or other property in respect of the Premises or
any part thereof, nor as giving Tenant any right power or authority to contract
for or permit the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any
materials or other property in such fashion as would permit the making of any
claim against Landlord or the Premises in respect thereof.

        All materials which are scrapped or removed in connection with the
making of Alterations permitted by this subsection may be dealt with by Tenant
as its own property and Tenant shall be entitled to all salvage resulting
therefrom.

                                   ARTICLE VI

                              LANDLORD'S COVENANTS

        6.1     AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS. Landlord hereby agrees to affirmatively
enforce all rights of Landlord contained in a certain Declaration of
Restrictions, a certain



                                      -30-


<PAGE>   31


Access and Utility Easement Agreement, and a certain Electrical and
Communication Easement Agreement, all of even date herewith and all by and
between Landlord and the Trustees of Renewal Trust and not to amend or terminate
these instruments except, in the case of termination, as expressly provided for
therein.

                                   ARTICLE VII

                           CASUALTY AND EMINENT DOMAIN

        7.1     CASUALTY LOSS. If the Premises or any part thereof is damaged or
destroyed by fire or other casualty, Tenant shall give Landlord prompt notice
thereof, and Tenant, at its own cost and expense, shall promptly and with due
diligence proceed to repair and restore the Premises to substantially their
condition immediately prior to such occurrence, with such alterations as Tenant
may elect in accordance with Section 5.2.3. Such repair and restoration shall be
subject to the same terms and conditions as are imposed on alterations by
Section 5.2.3.

                7.1.1   All insurance proceeds received by Lender or the
Proceeds Trustee, as the case may be, on account of such damage or destruction
less the actual cost, fees and expenses, if any, incurred in connection with
adjustment and collection of the loss, shall be applied by Lender or the
Proceeds Trustee, as the case may be, to pay or reimburse Tenant for the payment
of the cost of restoration, including the cost of temporary repairs and the
protection of property pending the completion of restoration. Such proceeds
shall be paid out from time to time as such restoration progresses upon the
request of Tenant, and upon Tenant providing Lender or the Proceeds Trustee with
reasonable evidence that: (a) the amount of proceeds


                                      -31-


<PAGE>   32


remaining after each payment to Tenant will be sufficient to complete the
restoration and (b) the Premises are not subject to any liens arising from the
restoration. Any such proceeds remaining after completion of the restoration
shall be paid to Tenant.

                7.1.2   If during the last three (3) years of the Term the
Premises or any part thereof is substantially damaged or destroyed by fire or
other casualty, and such damage or destruction cannot in the opinion of an
independent professional engineer selected by Tenant to whom neither Landlord or
Lender have made a reasonable objection within five (5) business days after
receipt of written notice of the identity thereof, be repaired within sixty (60)
days from the date on which the casualty loss occurs, then Tenant shall have the
right to terminate this Lease by notice given to Landlord within thirty (30)
days after the date of such casualty loss effective thirty (30) days after such
notice is received by Landlord. Simultaneously with the giving of such notice by
Tenant, Tenant shall: (a) pay or assign to Landlord all sums recoverable under
policies of insurance covering the building on the Premises; and (b) pay to
Landlord the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent for the period up to and including
the termination date. Fixed Rent and Additional Rent shall not abate by reason
of such casualty loss, except that if Tenant exercises its right to terminate
under this Section, the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent shall be prorated to the
termination date.



                                      -32-


<PAGE>   33


        7.2     TAKING.

                7.2.1   If the whole of the Premises shall be taken for any
public or quasi-public use under any statute or by right of eminent domain
(hereinafter referred to as "taking"), then this Lease shall automatically
terminate as of the date that possession is taken by the taking authority.

                7.2.2   If there is a partial taking of the Premises, then, to
the extent of the net taking award recovered by Landlord, Landlord shall
promptly and with due diligence restore the Premises or what may-remain thereof
to an economically operable facility substantially comparable to their condition
prior to such taking subject to the following:

                7.2.2.1   If such partial taking completely deprives Tenant of
all access to the Premises, Tenant may terminate this Lease by notice given to
Landlord within thirty (30) days of such partial taking; or, if such partial
taking reduced the floor area of the building on the Premises by more than
twenty percent (20%) or reduces the parking area on the Premises by more than
twenty percent (20%), then either party may terminate this Lease by notice given
to the other within thirty (30) days after such partial taking and effective
thirty (30) days after such notice is received by the other party; except that
such termination by Landlord shall be ineffective if Tenant shall extend the
Term pursuant to Section 11.1 or shall elect to expand pursuant to Section 11.2
or purchase the Premises pursuant to Section 11.5 (in the latter case, the
entire taking award shall be assigned to Tenant). If this Lease is



                                      -33-


<PAGE>   34


so terminated, the termination shall be effective as of the date that possession
is taken by the taking authority.

                7.2.2.2   If the Premises are not, in fact, restored as provided
in the introductory paragraph to this Section 7.2.2 within nine (9) months from
the date when the taking authority takes possession of the part of the Premises
so taken, Tenant may terminate this Lease, at any time following such nine (9)
month period until the Premises are so restored, by written notice given to
Landlord specifying a termination date thirty (30) days after such notice is
received by Landlord, provided, however, that such termination shall not be
effective if the Premises are in fact so restored before the expiration of such
30-day period.

                7.2.2.3   If, during the last year of the Term more than ten
percent (10%) of the floor area of the building on the Premises or more than
twenty percent (20%) of the parking area on the Premises is so partially taken,
either party shall have the right to terminate this Lease by notice to the other
given within thirty (30) days after the date of such partial taking and
effective thirty (30) days after such notice is received by the other party;
except that any such termination by Landlord shall be ineffective if Tenant
shall forthwith extend the Term pursuant to Section 11.1 or shall elect to
expand pursuant to Section 11.2 or purchase the Premises pursuant to Section
11.5 (in the latter case, the entire taking award shall be assigned to Tenant).

                7.2.2.4   If this Lease is not terminated as provided in this
Section 7.2.2, a just proportion of the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent shall be
suspended or abated, according to the nature and extent of the partial taking
from



                                      -34-


<PAGE>   35


the date that the taking authority takes possession or when Tenant is deprived
of its practical use of the Premises, whichever occurs first, to the date that
Tenant's use of the Premises shall be so restored, and thereafter a just
proportion of the Fixed Rent and Additional Rent shall be abated for the balance
of the Term according to the nature and extent of such partial taking.

                7.2.3   Landlord reserves to itself all rights to receive all
awards, damages and compensation accruing by reason of any taking referred to in
Section 7.2, except as otherwise provided in such Section, and Tenant hereby
releases and assigns to Landlord all such rights, except for such awards,
damages or compensation as may be separately awarded for Tenant's personal
property, trade fixtures and moving expenses.

                                  ARTICLE VIII

                                    DEFAULTS

        8.1     EVENTS OF DEFAULT. (a) If Tenant shall default in the
performance of any of its obligations to pay the Fixed Rent or Additional Rent
hereunder and such default shall continue for ten (10) days after written notice
from Landlord designating such default or (b) if within thirty (30) days after
written notice from Landlord to Tenant specifying any other default or defaults
Tenant has not commenced diligently to correct the default or defaults so
specified or has not thereafter diligently pursued such correction to
completion, or (c) if any assignment shall be made by Tenant for the benefit of
creditors, or (d) if Tenant's leasehold interest shall be taken on execution, or
(e) if a lien or other involuntary encumbrance is filed against Tenant's



                                      -35-


<PAGE>   36


leasehold interest and is not discharged within thirty (30) days thereafter or
(f) if a petition is filed by Tenant for adjudication as a bankrupt, or for
reorganization or an arrangement under any provision of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
as then in force and effect, or (g) if an involuntary petition under any of the
provisions of said Bankruptcy Code is filed against Tenant and such involuntary
petition is not dismissed within ninety (90) days thereafter, then, and in any
of such cases, Landlord and the agents and servants of Landlord lawfully may,
immediately or at any time thereafter and without demand or notice and with or
without process of law, enter into and upon the Premises or any part thereof in
the name of the whole or mail a notice of termination addressed to Tenant at the
Premises, and repossess the same as of Landlord's former estate and expel Tenant
and those claiming through or under Tenant and remove its and their effects
without being deemed guilty of any manner of trespass and without prejudice to
any remedies which might otherwise be used for arrears of rent or prior breach
of covenant, and upon such entry or mailing as aforesaid this Lease shall
terminate.

        8.2     REMEDIES. In the event that this Lease is terminated under any
of the provisions contained in Section 8.1 or shall be otherwise terminated for
breach of any obligation of Tenant, Tenant covenants to pay forthwith to
Landlord, as compensation, the excess of the total rent reserved for the residue
of the Term over the rental value of the Premises for said residue of the Term,
discounted to the date of such termination at the rate of nine percent (9%). In
calculating the rent reserved there shall be included, in addition to the Fixed
Rent and Additional Rent, the value


                                      -36-


<PAGE>   37


of all other considerations agreed herein to be paid or performed by Tenant for
said residue. Tenant further covenants as an additional and cumulative
obligation after any such termination to pay punctually to Landlord all the sums
and perform all the obligations which Tenant covenants in this Lease to pay and
to perform in the same manner and to the same extent and at the same time as if
this Lease had not been terminated. In calculating the amounts to be paid by
Tenant pursuant to the next preceding sentence Tenant shall be credited with any
amount paid to Landlord as compensation as in this Section 8.2 provided and also
with the net proceeds of any rent obtained by Landlord by reletting the
Premises, after deducting all Landlord's expenses in connection with such
reletting, including, without limitation, all reasonable repossession costs,
brokerage commissions, fees for legal services and expenses of preparing the
Premises for such reletting, it being agreed by Tenant that Landlord may (i)
relet the Premises or any part or parts thereof, for a term or terms which may
at Landlord's option be equal to or less than or exceed the period which would
otherwise have constituted the balance of the Term and (ii) make such
alterations, repairs and decorations in the Premises as Landlord in its
reasonable judgment considers advisable or necessary to relet the same. Landlord
agrees to use due diligence in seeking to relet the Premises under this Section.

        8.3     REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. Any and all rights and remedies which
Landlord may have under this Lease, and at law and equity, shall be cumulative
and shall not be deemed inconsistent with each other, and any two or more of all
such rights and remedies may be exercised at the same time insofar as permitted
by law.



                                      -37-


<PAGE>   38


        8.4     LANDLORD'S RIGHT TO CURE DEFAULTS. If Tenant shall default in
the performance or observance of any term or condition in this Lease and shall
not cure such default within thirty (30) days after notice from Landlord
specifying the default or, in the case of a default which cannot reasonably be
cured within such 30-day period, commence to cure such default within such
30-day period and thereafter proceed with diligence to complete such cure,
Landlord may, but shall not be obligated to, cure such default by Tenant under
this Lease; and whenever Landlord so elects, all costs and expenses incurred by
Landlord, including attorneys' reasonable fees, in curing a default shall be
paid by Tenant to Landlord on demand, together with interest at the rate of
twelve percent (12%) per annum thereon from the date of payment by Landlord to
the date of payment by Tenant.

        8.5     TENANT'S RIGHT TO CURE DEFAULT. If Landlord shall default in the
performance or observance of any term or condition in this Lease and shall not
cure such default within thirty (30) days after notice to Landlord specifying
the default or, in the case of a default which cannot reasonably be cured within
such 30-day period, commence to cure such default within such 30-day period and
thereafter proceed with diligence to complete such cure, Tenant may, but shall
not be obligated to, cure such default, notwithstanding the fact that no
specific provision for such substituted performance is made in this Lease with
respect to such default, and except that in case of an emergency Tenant may
commence to cure the default immediately and shall only be obligated to notify
Landlord of the event promptly thereafter. So long as there shall be a Lender
holding a first mortgage of the Premises which has been



                                      -38-


<PAGE>   39


approved by Tenant, Tenant shall, as a precondition to the exercise by Tenant of
Tenant's rights under this Section 8.5, send Lender a copy of any notice to
Landlord hereunder, simultaneously with the sending of such notice to Landlord,
Tenant agrees to accept the curing of the default by Lender as if Landlord had
cured such default. tn performing such obligation, Tenant may make any payment
of money or perform any other acts. All sums so paid by Tenant (together with
interest at the rate of twelve percent (12%) per annum) and all necessary
incidental costs and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable legal
fees in connection with enforcement of its rights under this Section by Tenant,
shall be payable to Tenant by Landlord immediately on demand made upon Landlord,
of which copy is given simultaneously to Lender. If such sums, interest, costs
and expenses are not paid within thirty (30) days after such demand, Tenant may
deduct the same from the Fixed Rent thereafter accruing, provided that such
deductions shall not exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000) in any one month.
Tenant may exercise its rights under this Section without waiving any other of
its rights or releasing Landlord from any of its obligations under this Lease.

        8.6     NO WAIVER, ETC. The failure of the non-defaulting party to seek
redress for violation of, or to insist upon the strict performance of, any
covenant or condition of this Lease shall not be deemed a waiver of such
violation nor prevent a subsequent act, which would have originally constituted
a violation, from having all the force and effect of an original violation. The
receipt by Landlord of rent with knowledge of the breach of any covenant of this
Lease shall not be deemed to have



                                      -39-


<PAGE>   40


been a waiver of such breach by Landlord, or by Tenant, unless such waiver be in
writing signed by the party to be charged. No consent or waiver, express or
implied, by the non-defaulting party to or of any breach of any agreement or
duty shall be construed as a waiver or consent to or of any other breach of the
same or any other agreement or duty.

        8.7     NO ACCORD AND SATISFACTION. No acceptance by Landlord of a
lesser sum than the Fixed Rent, Additional Rent or any other charge then due
shall be deemed to be other than on account of the earliest installment of such
rent or charge due, nor shall any endorsement or statement on any check or any
letter accompanying any check or payment as rent or other charge be deemed an
accord and satisfaction, and Landlord may accept such check or payment without
prejudice to Landlord's right to recover the balance of such installment or
pursue any other remedy in this Lease provided.

                                   ARTICLE IX

                               MORTGAGEE'S RIGHTS

        9.1     SUPERIORITY OF LEASE. This Lease shall be superior to and shall
not be subordinated to any mortgage or other voluntary lien or other encumbrance
on the Premises. Until it shall enter and take possession of the Premises for
the purpose of foreclosure, Lender shall have only such rights of Landlord as
are necessary to preserve the integrity of this Lease as security. Upon entry
and taking possession of the Premises for the purpose of foreclosure, Lender
shall have all the rights of Landlord. Lender shall not be liable either as
mortgagee or as assignee, to perform,



                                      -40-


<PAGE>   41


or be liable in damages for failure to perform, any of the obligations of
Landlord unless and until Lender shall enter and take possession of the Premises
for the purpose of foreclosure. Upon entry for the purpose of foreclosure,
Lender shall be liable to perform all of the obligations of Landlord arising
after such entry and without limitation shall be subject to and bound by
Tenant's rights to extend the Term or expand or purchase the Premises pursuant
to Article XI, provided that a discontinuance of any foreclosure proceeding
shall be deemed a conveyance under said provisions to the owner of the equity of
the Premises. No Fixed Rent shall be paid more than (1) one month prior to the
due date thereof and payments made in violation of this provision shall (except
to the extent that such payments are actually received by Lender in possession
or in the process of foreclosing its mortgage) be a nullity as against Lender
and Tenant shall be liable for the amount of such payments to Lender.

                                    ARTICLE X

                            MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

        10.1    NOTICES FROM ONE PARTY TO THE OTHER. All notices, approvals,
consents, requests, and elections required or permitted under this Lease shall
be in writing and shall be deemed duly served if and when mailed by registered
or certified mail, postage prepaid, addressed, if to Tenant, at the Original
Address of Tenant or such other address as Tenant shall have last designated by
notice in writing to Landlord; if to Landlord, at the Original Address of
Landlord or such other address as Landlord shall have last designated by notice
in writing to Tenant; and if to Lender, at the



                                      -41-


<PAGE>   42


address specified in Landlord's notice to Tenant identifying Lender or at the
address last known to the parties. If either party at any time designates some
other person to receive payments or notices under this Lease, all such payments
or notices thereafter by the other party shall be paid or given to the agent
designated until notice to the contrary is received from the designating party.

        10.2    QUIET ENJOYMENT. Landlord covenants and agrees that upon
Tenant's paying the rent and performing and observing the agreements, conditions
and other provisions on its part to be performed and observed, Tenant shall and
may peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy the Premises during the Term
hereof subject, however, to the terms of this Lease.

        10.3    LEASE NOT TO BE RECORDED. Neither party shall record this Lease.
Both parties shall, upon the request of either, execute, acknowledge and deliver
a notice or short form of this Lease in recordable form as permitted by
applicable statute.

        10.4    SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. The obligations of this Lease shall run
with the land, and this Lease shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of
the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, except that no
owner of the Premises shall be liable under this Lease except for breaches of
Landlord's obligations occurring while owner of the Premises; provided, however,
that the original Landlord named herein shall remain liable for obligations
accruing before the beginning of the Lease Term and for the obligations and
warranties set forth in Section 3.6.

        10.5    ACTS OF GOD. In any case where either party hereto is required
to do any act, delays caused by or resulting from Acts of God, war, civil
commotion, fire,



                                      -42-


<PAGE>   43


flood or other casualty, labor difficulties, shortages of labor, materials or
equipment, government regulations, unusually severe weather, or other causes
beyond such party's reasonable control shall not be counted in determining the
time during which work shall be completed, whether such time be designated by a
fixed date, a fixed time or a "reasonable time," and such time shall be deemed
to be extended by the period of such delay.

        10.6    LANDLORD'S DEFAULT. Landlord shall not be deemed to be in
default in the performance of any of its obligations hereunder unless it shall
fail to perform such obligations and such failure shall continue for a period of
thirty (30) days or such additional time as is reasonably required to correct
any such default after written notice has been given by Tenant to Landlord
specifying the nature of Landlord's alleged default. So long as Lender's
mortgage is outstanding, Tenant shall send Lender a copy of any notice to
Landlord hereunder, simultaneously with the sending of such notice to Landlord.
Tenant agrees to accept the curing of the default by Lender as if Landlord had
cured such default. Tenant shall have no right to terminate this Lease for any
default by Landlord hereunder and no right, for any such default, to offset or
counterclaim against any rent due hereunder except as specifically set forth
herein.

        10.7    BROKERAGE. Each party represents and warrants to the other that
it has dealt with no broker in connection with the consummation of this Lease
other than Meredith & Grew, Incorporated and Stephen J. Kasnet d/b/a Ocean
Manchester Corp. and Landlord shall pay for all fees due brokers.



                                      -43-


<PAGE>   44


        10.8    CONSENTS AND APPROVALS. Whenever the consent or approval of
either party is required hereunder, the same shall not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed except as otherwise expressly set forth in this Lease.

        10.9    APPLICABLE LAW AND CONSTRUCTION. This Lease shall be governed by
and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts
and, if any provisions of this Lease shall to any extent be invalid, the
remainder of this Lease shall not be affected thereby. This Lease may be
amended, and the provisions hereof may be waived or modified, only by
instruments in writing executed by Landlord and Tenant. The titles of the
several Articles and Sections contained herein are for convenience only and
shall not be considered in construing this Lease.

        10.10   ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Lease shall constitute the entire
agreement between the parties hereto and no oral representation or warranty by
either Landlord or Tenant shall have any force and effect after the date hereof.
This Lease shall supercede all other existing agreements between the Landlord
and Tenant, whether oral or written.

                                   ARTICLE XI

                                TENANT'S OPTIONS

        11.1    OPTIONS TO EXTEND. Tenant shall have the right and option to
extend the original Term of this Lease (or the Term as extended pursuant to the
provisions of Section 11.2) provided that Tenant is not in default beyond any
applicable grace periods, for three (3) successive periods of five (5) years
each by giving written notice to Landlord of its exercise thereof on or before
the date which is twelve (12) months


                                      -44-


<PAGE>   45


prior to the expiration of the original Term, or the Term as previously extended
pursuant to the provisions of this Section 11.1, as the case may be. If such
option is so exercised, all of the terms, conditions, covenants and agreements
contained herein shall apply during the respective extended Terms, except that
after the exercise of the third (3rd) such option Tenant shall have no further
rights to extend the Term, and except that the Fixed Rent during each such
extension period shall be the Land Rent portion of Fixed Rent plus an amount
necessary to pay the debt service on the mortgage loan on the Premises existing
at such time.

        The word "Term" refers as of any particular time to the original Term,
or the original Term as extended pursuant to Section 11.2, and (where the
context admits) also to any extension thereof with respect to which Tenant has,
as of that time exercised its option to extend as set forth in this Section
11.1.

        Tenant shall be required to make a payment to Landlord, as additional
rent, upon a termination of this Lease whether occurring through Tenant's
default or expiration of the original or any extended Term as follows. If the
Term of this Lease expires through non-exercise of an extension option (or
exercise of all extension options), then, on the date which is sixty (60) days
prior to the termination of the applicable Term, Tenant shall make a lump sum
payment to Landlord as additional rent hereunder in an amount sufficient to
reduce the then outstanding principal balance of the Mortgage Loan, or any
refinancing thereof (whether in one or more loans, including a loan from Tenant)
(either such principal amount or aggregate



                                      -45-


<PAGE>   46


principal amount sometimes hereinafter referred to as the "Outstanding
Principal"), to the following total or aggregate as the case may be, principal
amounts:

                           End of
                           Year 15          $6,500,000
                           Year 20          $5,312,000
                           Year 25          $3,300,000
                           Year 30          $0.00

        If the Lease terminates because of Tenant's default, the payment which
Tenant is obligated to make shall be the payment for the year which is nearest
in time to the date the Lease terminated discounted to the then present value
calculated using a term equal to the term which would have remained under the
Lease absent such termination and an interest factor equal to the yield of U.S.
Treasury Notes with a maturity matching the balance of the Term. Such payment
shall be due and payable on the date the Lease terminates.

        11.2    OPTION TO EXPAND. Tenant shall have the right and option to
expand the existing 135,000 square foot building on the Premises (the
"Building") or to construct an additional building or buildings on the Premises.
The party hereto responsible for constructing the Additional Building is
hereinafter sometimes referred to as the "Responsible Party." Such expansion, at
Tenant's reasonable discretion, may be in any amount up to the maximum square
footage allowed as of right on the Premises and in any location allowed as of
right on the Premises under applicable zoning laws and other federal, state and
local laws and regulations:

                (a)     Said option shall be exercisable prior to the expiration
of the Term, as it may be extended pursuant to Section 11.1, and, if not so
exercised, Tenant



                                      -46-


<PAGE>   47


and Landlord shall have no further rights and obligations, respectively, to
expand the Premises under this Section 11.2.

                (b)     At the time such option is exercisable, Tenant shall
notify Landlord in writing of (i) Tenant's intention to expand the Building on
the Premises, but without any obligation to do so except as hereinafter
provided, and (ii) whether Tenant shall be the Responsible Party. Tenant's
notice shall be accompanied by plans and specifications (the "Addition Plans")
for an additional building or expansion to the existing building on the Premises
(the "Additional Building") prepared at Tenant's expense, which Addition Plans
(i) shall be reasonably consistent with the finish and design of the Building as
it exists at such time, (ii) shall not change the general character of the
Building, (iii) shall not impair the usefulness of the Premises, (iv) shall not
reduce the fair market value of the Premises below such value immediately before
such Addition, or (v) shall not diminish the net rentable area of the Building.
If Tenant elects to be the Responsible Party, then the "Estimates" (as
hereinafter defined) shall also accompany such notice. Landlord shall review the
Addition Plans (and the Estimates, if applicable) and notify Tenant whether
Landlord concurs or does not concur (and, if not, in what respect) that the
submissions are in compliance with the above-referenced standards within sixty
(60) days of Tenant's notification. Tenant shall also send the Addition Plans to
Lender for approval but the Addition Plans shall be deemed approved by Lender
unless within ten (10) days after Lender receives the same Lender has given
Landlord and Tenant notice of objections thereto in reasonable detail.



                                      -47-


<PAGE>   48


        If Landlord is the Responsible Party, then upon the date Landlord
approves the Addition Plans, Landlord shall present Tenant with construction
cost and time schedule, estimates (the "Estimates"). Such construction cost
estimates shall be based upon competitive bids which the Responsible Party shall
be required to solicit. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the Estimates,
Tenant shall confirm to Landlord its intention to expand or withdraw its notice
of intention to expand.

        Upon approval of the Addition Plans, Tenant shall use its best efforts
to obtain financing for the construction of the Addition (the "New Mortgage
Loan") amortizable over a thirty (30) year period and with a rate of interest
and other terms satisfactory to Tenant and otherwise consistent with the
requirements of this Lease (including, without limitation, Section 3.8 other
than the condition set forth in Subsection 3.8(a)), which terms in any event
shall not cause this Lease to be treated as a capital lease under the rules of
the Financial Accounting Standards Board, and which shall provide that this
Lease will be superior to the New Mortgage Loan and non-recourse to the Landlord
or its beneficiaries. The amount of the New Mortgage Loan shall be limited to an
amount providing one hundred percent (100%) financing of only the following
costs (collectively, the "Addition Costs"): (1) the actual costs of construction
of the Additional Building, including architectural and engineering fees and a
reasonable contractor's profit; (2) interest actually incurred during the
construction period by Landlord in connection with the Additional Building; and
(3) "soft costs," which shall be limited to legal fees, real estate taxes during
the construction period and other commissions and fees in connection with the



                                      -48-


<PAGE>   49


Additional Building which are reasonably identified in advance. If, in order to
secure the New Mortgage Loan, it is necessary to refinance the Premises, the New
Mortgage Loan shall also include such amounts (collectively, the "Existing Loan
Costs") as are necessary to be paid to Lender to discharge the then existing
financing, including, without limitation, prepayment premiums or charges. The
Responsible Party shall provide the other party with evidence of all expenses
upon which the New Mortgage Loan is based.

        If Tenant is unable to obtain a New Mortgage Loan reasonably
satisfactory to Tenant and consistent with the requirements of this Lease, then
Tenant's notice of intention to expand shall be deemed withdrawn unless, within
forty-five (45) business days of such determination, Tenant notifies Landlord
that Tenant shall proceed with the construction of the Additional Building at
Tenant's sole cost and expense as provided herein (the "Tenant Financed
Expansion Option").

        If such option to expand is so exercised and Landlord is the Responsible
Party, Landlord agrees to construct or cause to be constructed the Additional
Building solely at Landlord's expense to the extent of the New Mortgage Loan in
accordance with the Addition Plans and on the following terms and conditions:

                (i)     under the supervision of an architect or engineer; and

                (ii)    all work shall be done in a good workmanlike manner
        employing first quality materials and so as to conform to all applicable
        building and zoning laws and all other applicable laws, ordinances,
        codes, regulations and orders of any authority having jurisdiction.



                                      -49-


<PAGE>   50
If the option to expand is so exercised and Tenant is the Responsible Party but
has not elected the Tenant Financed Option, Tenant agrees to construct or cause
to be constructed the Additional Building solely at Landlord's expense to the
extent of the New Mortgage Loan and in accordance with the Addition Plans and
the terms and conditions of Section 5.2.3 of the Lease. If such option to expand
is so exercised and Tenant has elected the Tenant Financed Option, then, in any
case, Tenant shall be the Responsible Party and shall construct or cause to be
constructed the Additional Building at Tenant's sole expense in accordance with
the Addition Plans and the terms and conditions of Section 5.2.3 of this Lease.

        The party which is not the Responsible Party or its representatives may
enter upon the Additional Building during the progress of the work to inspect
the progress thereof and to determine if the work is being performed in
accordance with the requirements of this Section 11.2. All change orders
requested by Tenant shall be conformed to the terms and provisions of Section
3.7 hereof. Landlord shall have no obligation and Tenant shall have no right to
construct the Additional Building if such construction shall cause the Premises,
or the buildings or other improvements thereon to be in violation of any
applicable zoning or building code or other law ordinance or regulation.

        Upon exercise of the option under this Section and provided Tenant has
not exercised the Tenant Financed Option, the Term shall be extended to a date
which is fifteen (15) years after the Addition Commencement Date, which shall be
the earlier of (a) the expiration of fifteen (15) days after the date on which
all of the following



                                      -50-


<PAGE>   51


conditions have been met: (i) all of the work required to be performed by the
Responsible Party in accordance with the Addition Plans has been substantially
completed; (ii) either party, as the case may be, shall have received a
certificate from the Responsible Party's construction representative certifying
such substantial completion; (iii) a Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by
the Town of Norwood permitting the occupancy of the Additional Building for the
Permitted Uses containing no exceptions which interfere with the use of the
Premises for Permitted Uses; (iv) all utilities to the Premises have been
installed and put in good working order; (v) the Premises may legally be used
for office, light manufacturing research and development or warehousing use and
comply with applicable provisions of the Town of Norwood Zoning By-Law, (vi) the
Premises are then free from all encumbrances or other matters affecting record
title, except as set forth in EXHIBIT D or otherwise approved by the party not
responsible for construction, as evidenced by an opinion letter so stating
addressed to such party from counsel selected by the Responsible Party and
reasonably acceptable to the other party, accompanied by a survey from a
reputable registered engineer or registered land surveyor certifying to Tenant
and Landlord that there are no encroachments on the premises or structures on
the premises which extend across the boundary lines of the premises and that the
access roads and utility lines have been located on the ground as shown on
EXHIBIT A-1; (vii) the Premises then conform with all applicable environmental
requirements and with the State Building Code, as evidenced by a certificate
from a registered professional engineers and all permits required in relation
thereto have been obtained



                                      -51-

<PAGE>   52





by the Responsible Party; or (b) the commencement by Tenant of its business in
the Additional Building. If Tenant shall have elected the Tenant Financed
Options Tenant may elect whether to extend the Term of this Lease for fifteen
(15) years to a date calculated as set forth above in this paragraph.

        The Responsible Party shall notify the other party thirty (30) days
before the date upon which the Responsible Party, using its best estimate,
participates that such work on the Additional Building will be substantially
completed, but if such notice proves to be given more or less than thirty (30)
days before substantial completions such fact shall not constitute a default by
the Responsible Party under this Lease. The term "substantially completed" as
used herein shall be defined as in Section 2.3 except that the reference to work
to be performed by Tenant shall be to that work required of the Responsible
Party pursuant to the Addition Plans. If the Addition Commencement Date occurs
pursuant to clause (b) of this Section, the Responsible Party shall comply with
the conditions in clause (a) as promptly as possible following the Addition
Commencement Date. Following substantial completion the Responsible Party shall
as promptly as possible complete any uncompleted work, including minor items and
items which earlier were impracticable to perform. Additionally, the Responsible
Party shall proceed as promptly as possible after issuance to eliminate any
exceptions contained in the Certificate of Occupancy.

        Commencing on the Addition Commencement Date, this Lease shall be
amended so as to include within the Building the Additional Building, and all of
the terms conditions covenants and agreements contained in this Lease shall
continue to



                                      -52-


<PAGE>   53


apply, except that the Term shall be extended as, and to the extent, provided
above and if required in order to finance the cost of the Additional Building
the Fixed Rent shall be increased to an amount equal to:

                (a)     The Debt Service portion of the Fixed Rent at the
                        Addition Commencement Date plus additional annual Fixed
                        Rent in an amount necessary to pay the debt service on
                        the mortgage Loan which funded construction of the
                        Additional Building and any costs reasonably associated
                        therewith (in substantial accordance with quotations
                        which formed the basis of the decision to proceed); or

                (b)     If a New Mortgage Loan is obtained which both refinances
                        the existing Mortgage Loan (and any additional loan from
                        Tenant) or any refinancing thereof as well as funds the
                        expansion of the Building, annual rent in an amount
                        necessary to pay the debt service on the New Mortgage
                        Loan; plus

                (c)     The Land Rent portion of the Fixed Rent.

        In the event that Tenant has exercised its option to expand the Building
pursuant to this Section 11.2 and has not elected the Tenant Financed Option,
then, upon the date which the Lease terminates, either pursuant to Tenant's
election not to extend or because of Tenant's default, Tenant shall make the
following payments to Landlord, as additional rent hereunder:



                                      -53-


<PAGE>   54


                (x)     a payment in an amount sufficient to reduce the then
        outstanding principal balance of that portion of the New Mortgage Loan
        which funded the Addition Costs to the percentage of such original
        principal amount shown on Exhibit E-1 for the year nearest in time to
        the date of termination; plus

                (y)     a payment in an amount sufficient to reduce the then
        outstanding principal balance of the Outstanding Principal to the amount
        shown on EXHIBIT E-2 for the year nearest in time to the date of
        termination.

If the Tenant has not elected the Tenant Financed Option and the New Mortgage
Loan also refinanced the then existing outstanding Principal then the following
payments shall be made by Tenant to Landlord as additional rent hereunder upon
the termination of the Lease:

                (a)     the amount required under clause (x) above; plus

                (b)     a payment in an amount sufficient to reduce the then
        outstanding principal balance of that portion of the New Mortgage Loan
        which funded the Existing Loan Costs to the amount shown on EXHIBIT E-2
        for the year nearest in time to the date of termination. 

If Tenant has elected the Tenant Financed Option and also elects to extend the
Term of the Lease for fifteen (15) years, then Tenant shall make the following
payment as additional rent hereunder upon the termination of the Lease:

                  (a) an amount sufficient to reduce the then outstanding amount
         of the Outstanding Principal to the amount shown on EXHIBIT E-2 for the
         year nearest in time to the date of termination.



                                      -54-


<PAGE>   55


If, in any of the cases set forth in this paragraph. the Lease terminates
because of Tenant's default, then Tenant's required payment or payments, as the
case may be, shall be discounted as provided under Section 11.1 of this Lease.

        When the Addition Commencement Date and the date of the end of the Term
as extended pursuant to this Section 11.2 are determined, such dates shall be
evidenced by a document in form for recording executed by Landlord and Tenant
and delivered each to the other.

        11.3    OPTIONS TO PURCHASE. Landlord hereby grants to Tenant the
following options provided, in each case, that Tenant is not in default under
this Lease beyond any applicable grace periods:

        A.      The option to purchase the premises in the event that Landlord
is unwilling or unable (for reasons other than Tenant's financial condition or
Landlord's inability to obtain mortgage financing satisfactory to Tenant and
consistent with the requirements of this Lease) to construct the Additional
Building and to lease the Additional Building to Tenant pursuant to Section 11.2
of this Lease, for a purchase price equal to the sum of:

                (1)     The dollar amount of the then outstanding Mortgage Loan
                        balance or balances of loans secured by the Premises (so
                        long as such loans have been approved and consented to
                        by Tenant) assuming that debt service payments thereon
                        are made on a regular basis as required by the terms of
                        the loans; plus

                (2)     The greater of:



                                      -55-


<PAGE>   56


                        (a)     the amount set forth on EXHIBIT F attached
                                hereto; or

                        (b)     the "Fair Market Value" as determined below;
                                plus

                (3)     Any costs of Landlord associated with the exercise of
                        the option to purchase by Tenant.

        Such option shall be exercisable by notice to Landlord given within one
hundred twenty (120) days of notice from Landlord to Tenant that Landlord is
unwilling or unable (for reasons other than Tenant's financial condition or
Landlord's inability to obtain mortgage financing satisfactory to Tenant and
consistent with the requirements of this Lease) to expand the premises pursuant
to Section 11.2.

        B.      The option to purchase the Premises (which shall include the
Additional Building if the option to expand pursuant to Section 11.2 has been
exercised), either at the expiration of the original Term or at any time after
the original Term of this Lease provided the Term has been extended pursuant to
Section 11.1 hereof. Tenant's option to purchase at the expiration of the
original Term is exercisable by written notice of intention to purchase given on
or before the date which is twelve (12) months prior to the expiration of the
original Term. Tenant's option to purchase at any time after the original Term
of this Lease may be exercised by written notice of such intention to purchase
given at any time after the original Term of this Lease. However, if after
giving such required notice the closing date for Tenant's purchase under this
clause B does not occur prior to the expiration of any applicable Term of this
Lease, as the case may be, due to Landlord's default, then said Term of this



                                      -56-


<PAGE>   57


Lease shall be extended until such closing date. The purchase price under this
subsection shall be the sum of:

        (1)     The dollar amount of the then outstanding Mortgage Loan balance
                or balances of loans secured by the Premises (so long as such
                loans have been approved by and consented to by Tenant)
                including, without limitation, any loan used to finance the
                Additional Buildings assuming debt service payments thereon are
                made on a regular basis as required by the terms of the loans;
                plus

        (2)     The lesser of:

                (a)     Six Million Dollars ($6,000,000) compounded annually at
                        a rate of five percent (5%); or

                (b)     Fair Market Value; plus

        (3)     Any costs of Landlord associated with the exercise of the option
                to purchase.
 
        C.      For purchases made pursuant to this Section, the closing of the
purchase (the "Closing Date") pursuant to clause A. shall occur on the sixtieth
(60th) day after notice by Tenant to Landlord of Tenant's election to purchase
or on the next succeeding business day if such sixtieth (60th) day shall occur
on a nonbusiness day, and if pursuant to clause B., such closing shall occur
either during the twelve (12) month period prior to the expiration of the
original Term if notice is given on or before the date twelve (12) months prior
to the expiration of the original Term or on the thirtieth (30th) day after such
notice or on the next succeeding business day if



                                      -57-


<PAGE>   58


such thirtieth (30th) day shall occur on a nonbusiness day in the event notice
is given after the expiration of the original Term.

        If Tenant exercises any option to purchase pursuant to this Section or
Section 11.4 or 11.5, the purchase price shall be paid by a check or checks
drawn by a Boston bank or banks on the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston or in such
other manner as will make the consideration available in Boston to Landlord for
investment on the Closing Date and the Premises in its then physical condition
shall be simultaneously conveyed at noon on the Closing Date by a good and
sufficient quitclaim deed running to Tenant or such nominee as shall have been
designated by at least thirty (30) days' notice to Landlord, delivered at the
Norfolk Registry of Deeds, conveying a good and clear record and marketable
title thereto subject only to, and with the benefit of, the following matters
effecting the premises on the Closing Date:

                1.      Rights and easements now effecting the premises as
                        described in EXHIBIT D.

                2.      Easements and agreements hereafter affecting the
                        Premises so far as in force and applicable on the
                        Closing Date, voluntarily created by Landlord at any
                        time with Tenant's approval.

                3.      Real estate taxes assessed or to be assessed upon the
                        Premises.

                4.      Balances, if any, remaining due and unpaid on account of
                        betterment assessments on the premises.

                5.      Laws and regulations of any governmental authority.



                                      -58-


<PAGE>   59


                6.      Any changes in the Premises which may have occurred as a
                        result of, and any easements or restrictions imposed by,
                        takings by eminent domain.

        Closing adjustments of the usual and customary items shall be made
between the parties taking into account the provisions of this Lease and the
respective obligations of the parties with respect to the payment of such items.

        In regard to mortgages to which the premises is subject immediately
prior to the purchase, there shall be paid directly by official bank or
certified check to the holder of such mortgage, for the purpose of discharging
the same, such portion of the purchase price as is necessary to pay all amounts
(including without limitation any prepayment penalties) secured by such
mortgages and the remaining balance of the purchase price shall be paid to
Landlord. The preceding sentence shall not require Tenant to pay a purchase
price for the Premises in excess of the amount elsewhere established in this
Lease. In the event Tenant exercises any right to purchase the property pursuant
to the options set forth in clause A. or clause B. of this Section and
thereafter defaults in its obligations to Landlord and fails to complete the
purchase of the Property after having exercised its right to do so, Landlord
shall not seek damages or specific performance against Tenant on account of such
default or failure and such default shall not constitute a default under this
Lease. Landlord shall, however, be entitled to reimbursement by Tenant for its
reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with Tenant's exercise
of its purchase right and



                                      -59-


<PAGE>   60


Tenant shall have no further right to purchase pursuant to the option under
which it failed to complete such purchase.

        D.      "Fair Market Value" shall be the fair market value of the
 Premises valued as unimproved and unencumbered by this Lease as determined by
three appraisers, one selected by Landlord one by Tenant, and a third by the two
appraisers so selected, all of whom shall have had at least ten (10) years'
experience in appraising commercial real estate in the greater Boston area. The
appraisers shall be instructed by the parties appointing them to make their
appraisals as if zoning and environmental laws and regulations in effect on the
date of appraisal allow the then existing improvements on the Premises. Further,
such appraisers shall be instructed to make their appraisals within ninety (90)
days after their appointment. If such appraisals are unable to agree on such
fair market value, the average of their three (3) appraisals shall be deemed
such fair market value. The cost of such appraisal shall be borne equally by
Landlord and Tenant.

        11.4    RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL. Subject to the provisions of subsection
11.4.3 below, Landlord hereby grants to Tenant the following right of first
refusal to purchase the Premises provided, that this Lease shall be in effect at
the time of the exercise by Tenant of its rights hereunder and that Tenant is
not in default under this Lease beyond any applicable grace period.

                11.4.1  In the event Landlord shall decide to offer the Premises
for sale, Landlord shall first give notice to Tenant of its intention to sell
the Premises and Tenant shall have the right, for a period of thirty (30) days
after Landlord's notice of



                                      -60-


<PAGE>   61


intention to sell, to notify Landlord of Tenant's interest in purchasing the
Premises. If Tenant so notifies Landlord and the parties agree on a purchase
price the Premises shall be sold by Landlord to Tenant at that price. Landlord
shall not offer to sell the Premises to a third party without first complying
with the above procedures and providing Tenant the opportunity of purchasing the
Premises.

                11.4.2  Landlord shall not sell the Premises to a third party
unless (i) Landlord has received a bona fide written offer to purchase the
Premises, (ii) Landlord has given Tenant a copy of the offer together with (1)
indication that Landlord is willing to accept the offer and (2) an offer by
Landlord to Tenant to sell the Premises on the same terms and conditions set
forth in the offer, and (iii) Tenant shall not have agreed within sixty (60)
days after Tenant's receipt of the notice and offer to purchase the Premises in
accordance with the offer.

        In the event Tenant agrees to purchase the Premises, Tenant shall comply
with all the terms and conditions of the offer, except that in no event shall
Tenant be required to pay the consideration or complete the purchase in less
than one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of Landlord's notice and offer.

        In the event Tenant shall not have agreed to purchase the Premises
within the time specified above, Landlord shall have the right to sell the
Premises to any third party in accordance with the terms and conditions set
forth in the offer.

                11.4.3  The foregoing rights of Tenant set forth in this Section
11.4 shall not be applicable to transfers and sales made to affiliates of
Landlord, immediate family members of Francis J. Perry, Jr., or William J.
Walker or entities of which such



                                      -61-


<PAGE>   62


immediate family members or Francis J. Perry, Jr., William J. Walker own at
least a fifty percent (50%) beneficial interest, and shall not be applicable to
the placing of any bona fide mortgage on the premises pursuant to Section 3.8 or
Section 11.2 of this Lease, to the foreclosure thereof or to the delivery of a
deed or any other transfer in lieu of such foreclosure, as the case may be.

                11.4.4   In the event Tenant exercises any right to purchase the
Premises pursuant to the options set forth in this Section 11.4 and thereafter
defaults in its obligations to Landlord and fails to purchase the Premises,
Landlord shall not seek damages or specific performance of Tenant's obligation
to purchase the Premises and such default shall not constitute a default under
this Lease. Landlord shall, however, be entitled to reimbursement by Tenant for
its reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with Tenant's
exercise of its purchase right and Tenant shall have no further right to
purchase pursuant to the option under which it failed to complete such purchase.

         11.5   PURCHASE RIGHTS FOLLOWING EMINENT DOMAIN. In the event Landlord
elects to terminate this Lease pursuant to Section 7.2, then Tenant shall have
the right for a period of thirty (30) days after such termination to notify
Landlord of Tenant's intention of purchasing the Premises or any remaining
portion thereof owned by Landlord. If Tenant so notifies Landlord of its
intention to purchase the entire Premises, the


                                  [End of page]


                                      -62-


<PAGE>   63

Premises shall be sold by Landlord to Tenant at the applicable purchase price
set forth in either clause A. or clause B. of Section 11.3. If Tenant exercises
its right to purchase the Premises or such remaining portion thereof, the
provisions of Section 11.3 (dealing with the form of the purchase price, the
place of the delivery thereof, the form of the deed, the matters to which the
deed is subject and the closing adjustments) shall apply to the sale, and the
purchase shall occur on the sixtieth (60th) day after Tenant's exercise of its
right to purchase, or on the next succeeding business day if such sixtieth
(60th) day shall occur on a nonbusiness day.

        EXECUTED as a sealed instrument as of the 1st day of May, 1992.


Landlord:                                       Tenant:

                                                ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

 /s/ Francis J. Perry, Jr.
Francis J. Perry, Jr.
as Trustee of Everett
Street Trust, for himself
and co-trustee and not                          By: /S/ Joe McDonough
individually                                        ---------------------------
                                                    Name: Joe McDonough
                                                    Title: VP Finance & CFO



                                      -63-


<PAGE>   64


                                    EXHIBIT A

                        LOTS 4C and 4D LEGAL DESCRIPTION

        Being the improved parcels of land located in Norwood, Massachusetts
containing approximately 24.13 acres and shown as "Lot 4C" and "Lot 4D" on a
plan entitled "Plan of Land in Norwood, Mass." dated January 20, 1992 prepared
by Norwood Engineering Company, Inc., 1410 Boston - Providence Highway (Route
1), Norwood, Massachusetts 02062 recorded with the Norfolk County Registry of
Deeds on May 20, 1992 as Plan #342 of 1992 Plan Book 406, and more fully
described as follows:

        Commencing at a point at the intersection of westerly sideline of Walper
Street and the Norwood/Westwood Town Line and

         THENCE        S 84(degree)13' 13" E, 523.75 feet;

         THENCE        S 48(degree)41' 13" E, 0.72 feet;

         THENCE        By the westerly sideline of Downey Street
                       the following courses and distances:

         THENCE        S 27(degree)36' 15" W, 50.98 feet;

         THENCE        S 16(degree)19' 22" W, 45.78 feet;

         THENCE        S 05(degree)11' 29" W, 291.56 feet;

         THENCE        S 08(degree)55' 58" W, 47.19 feet;

         THENCE        S 00(degree)22' 58" W, 144 feet;

         THENCE        S 21(degree)25' 59" E, 86.19 feet;

         THENCE        S 12(degree)07' 15" E, 89.56 feet;

         THENCE        S 08(degree)17' 50" E, 492.77 feet; and

         THENCE        63.38 feet on a curve to the right of radius 35 feet;

         THENCE        By the northerly sideline of Everett Street
                       the following courses and distances:

         THENCE        68.09 feet on a curve to the right of radius 1400 feet;



                                      -64-


<PAGE>   65


         THENCE    273.46 feet on a curve to the left of radius 846 feet; and

         THENCE    97.32 feet on a curve to the right of radius 100 feet;

         THENCE    By the northerly sideline of University
                   Avenue the following courses and distances:

         THENCE    338.74 feet by curve to the left of radius 1032 feet;

         THENCE    N 63(degree)19' 02" W, 250 feet;

         THENCE    494.52 feet by curve to the right of radius 1135.84 feet; and

         THENCE    80.58 feet along a curve to the right of radius 80 feet;

         THENCE    N 19(degree) 20' 44" E, for two courses
                   totalling 315.22 feet along the easterly
                   sideline of the Boston - Providence Highway;

         THENCE    S 70(degree)39' 16" E, 660 feet;

         THENCE    N 19(degree)20' 44" E, 370 feet;

         THENCE    N 08(degree)04' 26" W, 107.95 feet;

         THENCE    N 84(degree)13' 13" W, 55.74 feet; and

         THENCE    N 05(degree)46' 47" E, 50 feet to the point of beginning.

        Together with appurtenant rights under an easement for provision of
electrical and communication services set forth in an instrument dated May 1,
1992 and recorded with the Norfolk County Registry of Deeds on May 20, 1992 as
Instrument No. 58634.




                                      -65-


<PAGE>   66


                                   EXHIBIT A-1

                              [Survey of Premises]







                                      -66-


<PAGE>   67


                                    EXHIBIT B


                                  Rent Schedule

        The annual Fixed Rent shall be an amount equal to the sum of (a) the
actual debt service payments (including principal and interest [including,
without limitation, any contingent or additional interest or interest charged
pursuant to a default thereunder and any administrative or penalty charges due
under any instruments evidencing the financing], as the case may be) due under
the financing secured by the Premises and in effect on the date of this Lease or
procured for the Premises pursuant to Section 3.8 hereof or any refinancing
thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Lease (the "Debt Service portion of
Fixed Rent") plus (b) the annual Land Rent set forth below.

        The annual Land Rent portion of Fixed Rent shall be as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
              YEARS                     PERIOD                       LAND RENT

         <S>                       <C>                                <C>     

         1-5                       Commencement Date -                $332,000
                                   3/31/97
         6-10                      4/1/97 - 3/31/02                   $482,000
         11-15                     4/1/02 - 3/31/07                   $638,000
         16-20 (Option 1)          4/1/07 - 3/31/12                   $739,000
         21-25 (Option 2)          4/1/12 - 3/31/17                   $831,000
         26-30 (Option 3)          4/1/17 - 3/31/22                   $941,000
</TABLE>





                                      -67-


<PAGE>   68


                                    EXHIBIT C

                                Improvement Work


        The work and improvements set forth in the following: "Plans and
Specifications for Analog Devices, Inc., Building 3 Renovation, 3 Technology
Way, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062-9106" developed and stamped by Margulies &
Associates, 186 Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 dated November 4,
1992, with revisions as indicated.



                                      -68-


<PAGE>   69


                                    EXHIBIT D

                to Lease between Trustees of Everett Street Trust
                            and Analog Devices, Inc.


                   ENCUMBRANCES AFFECTING THE LEASED PREMISES


1.      Title to and rights of the public and others entitled thereto in and to
        those portions of the insured premises lying within the bounds of
        Everett Street and Downey Street.

2.      Terms and provisions of Permit issued by the Commonwealth of
        Massachusetts Department of Public Works No. 6-11937 recorded with the
        Norfolk County Registry of Deeds in Book 5219, Page 543.

3.      Rights and easements in Downey Street granted to Rodger P. Nordblom and
        Russell J. Fogelin, Trustees, dated August 10, 1979, and recorded with
        said Deeds in Book 5641, Page 257.

4.      A sixty-five foot (65') utility easement adjoining the Boston-Providence
        Turnpike for installation of underground utilities, including the right
        to maintain, repair or replace such utilities, provided that any damage
        caused by such repair or replacement is promptly restored.

5.      Rights of access and egress to and from Lot 3C and for installation of
        underground utilities, including the right to maintain, repair, or
        replace utilities, provided that any damage caused by such repair or
        replacement is promptly restored, set forth in an instrument dated May
        1, 1992 and recorded with said Deeds on May 20, 1992 as Document No.
        58635.

6.      Restrictions set forth in a Declaration of Restrictions of even date
        herewith recorded with said Deeds on May 20, 1992 as Document No. 58636.




                                      -69-


<PAGE>   70


                                   EXHIBIT E-1

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               END OF
               YEAR                               PERCENT

               <S>                                 <C>                                      
               1-14                                  N/A
               15                                  50.0%
               16                                  43.2%
               17                                  35.7%
               18                                  27.4%
               19                                  18.3%
               20                                   8.2%
               20.75                                0.0%

</TABLE>



                                      -70-


<PAGE>   71


                                   EXHIBIT E-2

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
               End of                             Outstanding
               Year                               Principal
               ----                               ---------

               <S>                                <C>                                          
               1-14                                      N/A
               15                                 $6,533,165
               16                                 $6,335,098
               17                                 $6,116,291
               18                                 $5,874,571
               19                                 $5,607,541
               20                                 $5,312,549
               21                                 $4,986,667
               22                                 $4,626,662
               23                                 $4,228,959
               24                                 $3,789,611
               25                                 $3,304,258
               26                                 $2,768,083
               27                                 $2,175,762
               28                                 $1,521,418
               29                                 $  798,556
               30                                 $       (0)


</TABLE>



                                      -71-


<PAGE>   72


                                    EXHIBIT F


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                  END OF YEAR                             PRICE
                  -----------                             -----

                  <S>                                <C>  
                  1 to 5                             $3,000,000
                  6                                  $3,215,320
                  7                                  $3,446,095
                  8                                  $3,693,433
                  9                                  $3,958,524
                  10                                 $4,242,641
                  11                                 $4,547,150
                  12                                 $4,873,514
                  13                                 $5,223,303
                  14                                 $5,598,198
                  15                                 $6,000,000


</TABLE>


                                      -72-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.11
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>REIMBURSEMENT PLAN
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                   Exhibit 10.11

                             REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT

         THIS REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated May 18, 1992,
made by and between Francis J. Perry, Jr. and William Walker as Trustees of
Everett Street Trust under declaration of trust dated May 9, 1980 recorded with
Norfolk County Registry of Deeds, Book 5745, Page 654, as amended of record,
having an address at P.O. Box 158, Islington, Massachusetts 02090 (the "Everett
Trust) and Analog Devices, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation located at One
Technology Way, P.O. Box 9106, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062-9106 ("Analog").

                                   WITNESSETH:

         WHEREAS, The First National Bank of Boston, a national banking
association, having a business address at 100 Federal Street, Boston,
Massachusetts 02110 (the "Bank"), is this day making a term loan to the Everett
Trust in the maximum principal amount of Nine Million Seven Hundred Fifty
Thousand ($9,750,000.00) Dollars (the "Loan"); and

         WHEREAS, the Loan will be evidenced by a Promissory Note of even date
herewith from the Everett Trust to the Bank in the maximum Principal amount of
Nine Million Seven Hundred Fifty Thousand ($9,750,000.00) Dollars (the "Note");
and

         WHEREAS, it is a condition of the obligation of the Bank to make the
Loan that Analog enter into a Note Purchase Agreement of even date herewith (the
"Note Purchase Agreement"), pursuant to which Analog will agree to Purchase and
pay for the Note in the event of a default under the Note or under the
instruments securing the Note, all in accordance with the terms and conditions
of the Note Purchase Agreement; and

         WHEREAS, it is a condition of Analog executing the Note Purchase
Agreement that the Everett Trust enter into this Agreement.

         NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual
covenants and agreement contained herein, and for other valuable consideration,
receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto
agree as follows:

         1. The Everett Trust will, immediately upon receipt of written demand
made by Analog, reimburse Analog for all amounts which Analog pays to the Bank
Pursuant to the Note Purchase Agreement or any other document executed by Analog
in connection therewith (the "Analog Documents"), and all charges, costs, and
expenses incurred or paid by Analog in connection with the exercise by Analog of
any right, power, or remedy under the Note Purchase Agreement or under the




<PAGE>   2



Analog Documents or the exercise by Analog of any right, power, or remedy under
this Agreement or under the Mortgage and Security Agreement of even date
herewith from the Everett Trust to Analog (the "Mortgage") securing this
Agreement, all with interest at the default rate of interest set forth in the
Note from the date of any default under this Agreement until reimbursement is
made pursuant to this Agreement, including all costs of collection (including
reasonable attorneys fees) and all costs of suit or the foreclosure by Analog of
the Mortgage or other Security Documents (as hereinafter defined) or in the
event Analog is made party to any litigation because of the existence of any
indebtedness hereunder or because of the existence of the Mortgage or Security
Documents (all such costs, charges and expenses collectively, the "Reimbursement
Costs").

         2. This Agreement shall be secured by a Mortgage encumbering certain
real and personal property located in Norwood, Massachusetts, as more
particularly described therein, and any other instruments now or hereafter
executed by the Everett Trust which in any manner constitute additional security
for this Agreement (all of which are hereinafter referred to as the "Security
Documents"), together with the improvements situated thereon. In the event that
Analog should become the holder of the Note pursuant to the terms of the Note
Purchase Agreement, the Security Documents shall remain in full force and effect
and shall secure all sums due under the Note.

         3. The rights or remedies of Analog as provided in this Agreement and
the Security Documents shall be cumulative and concurrent, and may be pursued
singly, successively, or together against the Everett Trust, the property
described in the Mortgage and any other funds, property or security held by
Analog for the payment of any and all sums due hereunder or otherwise at the
sole discretion of Analog. The failure to exercise any such right or remedy
shall in no event be construed as a waiver or release of said rights or remedies
or of the right to exercise them at any later time.

         4. All notices to be given pursuant to this Agreement shall be
sufficient if mailed postage prepaid, certified or registered mail, return
receipt requested, to the above described address of the parties hereto, or to
such other address as a party may request in writing. Any time period provided
in the giving of any notice hereunder shall commence upon the date such notice
is deposited in the mail.

         5. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, this
Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of a Letter Agreement of even
date herewith between the Everett Trust and Analog.

         6. This Agreement may not be amended, modified or changed, nor shall
any waiver of any provision hereof be effective, except only by an instrument in

                                       -2-


<PAGE>   3



writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement of any waiver,
amendment, change, modification or discharge is sought.

         7. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the
Security Documents, neither the undersigned nor any beneficiaries of the Everett
Trust as individuals or as a partnership or partners thereof shall have any
personal liability for amounts due under this Agreement. Analog agrees not to
seek a deficiency judgment or personal money judgment against the undersigned or
said beneficiaries as individuals or as a partnership or partners thereof for
any default under this Agreement or the Security Documents; provided that (i)
nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit or limit Analog from
exercising or enforcing any other remedy allowed by law or equity or by the
terms of the Mortgage, or any other Security Document of any kind, in securing
the payments due under this Agreement, and all other sums due, and (ii) nothing
herein contained will be deemed to be a release or an impairment of any other
indebtedness or obligation evidenced hereby or under the aforesaid instruments.

         8. This Agreement shall be construed according to and governed by the
laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

         This Agreement is executed as a sealed instrument as of the date first
hereinabove written.



                                 /s/ Francis J. Perry, Jr
                                 ---------------------------------------------
                                 FRANCIS J. PERRY, JR., as Trustee of Everett
                                 Street Trust, for himself and co-Trustee, but
                                 not individually

                                 ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


                                 By: /s/ Joe Mcdonough
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                 Its: VP Finance & CFO
                                      ----------------------------------------


                                       -3-

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.20
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EMPLOYEE RETENTION AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                   EXHIBIT 10.20



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                                     Form of

                          EMPLOYEE RETENTION AGREEMENT

c/o Analog Devices, Inc.
Two Technology Way
Norwood, Massachusetts

Dear ___________:

         Analog Devices, Inc. (the "Company") recognizes that, as is the case
with many publicly-held corporations the possibility of a change in control may
exist and that such possibility, and the uncertainty and questions which it may
raise among key personnel, may result in the departure or distraction of key
personnel to the detriment of the Company, its stockholders and its customers.

         The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that
appropriate steps should be taken to reinforce and encourage the continued
attention and dedication of the Company's key personnel, including yourself, to
their assigned duties without distraction in the face of potentially disturbing
circumstances arising from the possibility of a change in control of the
Company.

         In order to induce you to remain in its employ, the Company agrees that
you shall receive the severance benefits set forth in this letter agreement (the
"Agreement") in the event your employment with the Company is terminated under




<PAGE>   2



the circumstances described below subsequent to a "Change in Control" of the
Company (as defined below).

         1.       CERTAIN DEFINITIONS.

         As used herein, the following terms shall have the following respective
meanings:

                  (a) A "CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall occur or be deemed to have
occurred only if any of the following events occur: (i) any "person," as such
term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the "Exchange Act"), (other than the Company, any trustee or other
fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, or
any corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company
in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of stock of the Company)
is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing
30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
securities; (ii) individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board
(as of the date hereof, the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to
constitute at least a majority of the Board, provided that any person becoming a
director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for
election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a
majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (other than an
election or nomination of an individual whose initial assumption of office is in
connection

                                       -2-


<PAGE>   3



with an actual or threatened election contest relating to the election of the
directors of the Company, as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation
14A under the Exchange Act) shall be, for purposes of this Agreement, considered
as though such person were a member of the Incumbent Board; or (iii) the
stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company
with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation which would
result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior
thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being
converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 80% of the
combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving
entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (B) a
merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company
(or similar transaction) in which no "person" (as hereinabove defined) acquires
more than 50% of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding
securities; or (iv) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete
liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the
Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

                  (b)      A "POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall be deemed to
have occurred if:

                           (A) the Company enters in an agreement, the
         consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in
         Control of the Company,

                                       -3-


<PAGE>   4



                           (B) any person (including the Company) publicly
         announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which if
         consummated would constitute a Change in Control of the Company; or

                           (C) the Board of Directors of the Company adopts a
         resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a
         Potential Change in Control of the Company has occurred.

                  (c)      An "APPROVED CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall mean any
Change in Control that the Board, by resolution adopted prior to the occurrence
of any of the events constituting a Change in Control, specifically and
expressly declares shall constitute an "Approved Change in Control" for purposes
of this Agreement.

                  (d)      A "HOSTILE CHANGE IN CONTROL" shall mean any Change
in Control other than an Approved Change in Control.

         2.       TERM OF THE AGREEMENT.

                  The term of this Agreement (the "Term") shall commence on
January 1, 1989 and shall continue in effect through December 31, 1990;
provided, however, that commencing on January 1, 1991 and each January 1
thereafter, the Term shall be automatically extended for one additional year
unless, not later than September 30 of the preceding calendar year, the Company
shall have given you written notice that the Term will not be extended; and
provided further that, if a Change in Control of the Company shall have occurred
during the original or extended Term, this Agreement shall continue in effect
for a period of not less than 24 months beyond the month in which such Change in
Control occurred.

                                       -4-


<PAGE>   5



         3.       CHANGE IN CONTROL; POTENTIAL CHANGE IN CONTROL.

                  (a) No benefits shall be payable under this Agreement unless
there has been a Change in Control of the Company during the Term.

                  (b) You agree that, notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary in this Agreement, in the event of a Potential Change in Control of the
Company, you will not voluntarily resign as an employee of the Company until the
earliest of (A) a date which is six (6) months after the occurrence of such
Potential Change in Control of the Company or (B) the termination by you of your
employment by reason of Disability as defined in Section 4(b)(i) or for Good
Reason as defined in Section 4(b)(iii).

         4.       EMPLOYMENT STATUS; TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL.

                  (a) You acknowledge that this Agreement does not constitute a
contract of employment or impose on the Company any obligation to retain you as
an employee and, except as set forth in Section 3(b), this Agreement does not
prevent you from terminating your employment at any time. If your employment
with the Company terminates for any reason and subsequently a Change in Control
shall have occurred, you shall not be entitled to any benefits hereunder. Any
termination of your employment by the Company or by you following a Change in
Control of the Company during the Term shall be communicated by written notice
of termination ('"Notice of Termination") to the other party hereto in
accordance with Section 7. The "Date of Termination" shall mean the effective
date of such termination as specified in the Notice of Termination (provided
that no such Notice of Termination


                                       -5-


<PAGE>   6



shall specify an effective date more than 180 days after the date of such Notice
of Termination).

                  (b)      Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, you
shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 5 only if either (1) an
Approved Change in Control shall have occurred during the Term and your
employment with the Company is subsequently terminated or terminates within 24
months after such Approved Change in Control, unless such termination is (A)
because of your death, (B) by the Company for Disability (as defined in Section
4(b)(i)) or Cause (as defined in Section 4(b)(ii)), or (C) by you other than for
Good Reason (as defined in Section 4(b)(iii)), or (2) a Hostile Change in
Control shall have occurred during the Term and your employment with the Company
is subsequently terminated by either you or the Company within 12 months after
such Hostile Change in Control for any reason other than your death or
Disability or termination by the Company for Cause.

                           (i)      DISABILITY. If, as a result of incapacity
due to physical or mental illness, you shall have been absent from the full-time
performance of your duties with the Company for six (6) consecutive months and,
within thirty (30) days after written notice of termination is given to you, you
shall not have returned to the full-time performance of your duties, your
employment may be terminated for "Disability." Any termination for Disability
under this Agreement shall not affect any rights you may otherwise have under
the Company's Long-Term Disability Plan.

                           (ii)     CAUSE. Termination by the Company of your 
employment for "Cause" shall mean termination (A) upon your willful and
continued failure to


                                       -6-


<PAGE>   7



substantially perform your duties with the Company (other than any such failure
resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any such
actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination by
you for Good Reason as defined in Section 4(b)(iii)), provided that a written
demand for substantial performance has been delivered to you by the Company
specifically identifying the manner in which the Company believes that you have
not substantially performed your duties and you have not cured such failure
within 30 days after such demand, or (B) by reason of your willful engaging in
conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company. For
purposes of this subsection, no act or failure to act on your part shall be
deemed "willful" unless done or omitted to be done by you not in good faith and
without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest
of the Company.

                           (iii)    GOOD REASON. For purposes of this Agreement,
"Good Reason" shall mean, without your written consent, the occurrence after a
Change-in-Control of the Company of any of the following circumstances unless,
in the case of paragraphs (A), (C), (D), (F) or (G), such circumstances are
fully corrected prior to the Date of Termination (as defined in Section 4(a))
specified in the Notice of Termination (as defined in Section 4(a)) given in
respect thereof:

                                    (A) any significant diminution in your
position, duties, responsibilities, power, title or office as in effect
immediately prior to a Change in Control;


                                       -7-


<PAGE>   8



                                    (B) any reduction in your annual base salary
as in effect on the date hereof or as the same may be increased from time to
time;

                                    (C) the failure of the Company to continue
in effect any material compensation or benefit plan in which you participate
immediately prior to the Change in Control, unless an equitable arrangement
(embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been made with
respect to such plan, or the failure by the Company to continue your
participation therein (or in such substitute or alternative plan) on a basis not
materially less favorable, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and
the level of your participation relative to other participants, as existed at
the time of the Change in Control or the failure by the Company to award
cash-bonuses to its executives in amounts substantially consistent with past
practice in light of the Company's financial performance;

                                    (D) the failure by the Company to continue
to provide you with benefits substantially similar to those enjoyed by you under
any of the Company's life insurance, medical, health and accident, or disability
plans in which you were participating at the time of the Change in Control, the
taking of any action by the Company which would directly or indirectly
materially reduce any of such benefits, or the failure by the Company to provide
you with the number of paid vacation days to which you are entitled on the basis
of years of service with the Company in accordance with the Company's normal
vacation policy in effect at the time of the Change in Control;


                                       -8-


<PAGE>   9



                                    (E) any requirement by the Company or of any
person in control of the Company that the location at which you perform your
principal duties for the Company be changed to a new location outside a radius
of 50 miles from your principal residence at the time of the Change in Control;

                                    (F) the failure of the Company to obtain a
satisfactory agreement from any successor to assume and agree to perform the
Agreement, as contemplated in Section 6; or

                                    (G) any purported termination of your
employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying
the requirements of Section 7, which purported termination shall not be
effective for purposes of this Agreement

         5.       COMPENSATION UPON TERMINATION. Following a Change in Control
of the Company, you shall be entitled to the following benefits during a period
of disability, or upon termination of your employment, as the case may be,
provided that such period or termination occurs during the Term:

                  (a)      During any period that you fail to perform your
full-time duties with the Company as a result of incapacity due to physical or
mental illness, you shall continue to receive base salary and all other earned
compensation at the rate in effect at the commencement of any such period
(offset by all compensation payable to you under the Company's disability plan
or program or other similar plan during such period) until your employment is
terminated pursuant to Section 4(b)(i) hereof. Thereafter, or in the event your
employment is terminated by reason of death, your


                                       -9-


<PAGE>   10



benefits shall be determined under the Company's long-term disability,
retirement, insurance and other compensation programs then in effect in
accordance with the terms of such programs.

                  (b)      If your employment shall be terminated by the Company
for Cause or by you other than for Good Reason following an Approved Change in
Control, the Company shall pay you your full base salary and all other
compensation through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time
the Notice of Termination is given, plus all other amounts to which you are
entitled under any compensation plan of the Company at the time such payments
are due, and the Company shall have no further obligations to you under this
Agreement.

                  (c)      If your employment with the Company is terminated by
the Company (other than for Cause, Disability or your death) or by you for Good
Reason within 24 months after an Approved Change in Control or if your
employment with the Company is terminated by you or the Company for any reason
(other than your death or Disability or termination by the Company for Cause)
within 12 months after a Hostile Change in Control, then you shall be entitled
to the benefits below:

                           (i)      the Company shall pay to you (A) your full
base salary and all other compensation through the Date of Termination at the
rate in effect at the time the Notice of Termination is given, no later than the
full fifth day following the Date of Termination, plus all other amounts to
which you are entitled under any compensation plan of the Company at the time
such payments are due and (B) if you so elect, in lieu of your right to continue
to receive deferred compensation under any


                                      -10-


<PAGE>   11



deferred compensation plan of the Company then in effect, no later than the
fifth full day following the Date of Termination, a lump-sum amount, in cash,
equal to the deferred amounts together with any earnings credited on such
amounts under such plan;

                           (ii)     in lieu of any further salary payments for
periods subsequent to the Date of Termination, the Company will pay as severance
pay to you, at the time specified in Subsection (e) below, a lump sum severance
payment (together with the payments provided in paragraph (iv) below, the
"Severance Payments") in an amount equal to the sum of (A) 200% of the higher of
(i) your annual base salary in effect on the Date of Termination or (ii) your
annual base salary in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, plus
(B) 200% of the aggregate cash bonuses paid or awarded to you in respect of the
four fiscal quarters preceding the Date of Termination;

                           (iii)    the Company shall pay to you all legal fees
and expenses incurred by you as a result of such termination (including all such
fees and expenses, if any, incurred in contesting or disputing any such
termination or in seeking to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided by
this Agreement or in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent
attributable to the application of Section 4999 of the Code to any payment or
benefit provided hereunder); and

                           (iv)     for a twenty-four (24) month period after
such termination, the Company shall arrange to provide you with life,
disability, dental, accident and group health insurance benefits substantially
similar to those which you were


                                      -11-


<PAGE>   12



receiving immediately prior to the Notice of Termination. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Company shall not provide any benefit otherwise receivable by you
pursuant to this paragraph (iv) if an equivalent benefit is actually received by
you during the twenty-four (24) month period following your termination, and any
such benefit actually received by you shall be reported to the Company.

                  (d) In the event that you become entitled to the Severance
Payments, if any of the Severance Payments will be subject to the tax (the
"Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of the Code (or any similar tax that may
hereafter be imposed), the Company shall pay to you at the time specified in
Subsection (e) below. an additional amount (the "Gross-Up Payment") such that
the net amount retained by you, after deduction of any Excise Tax on the Total
Payments (as defined below), but before deduction of any federal, state and
local income tax and Excise Tax upon the payment provided for by this
subsection, shall be equal to the Total Payments. For purposes of determining
whether any of the Severance Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the
amount of such Excise Tax, (A) any other payments or benefits received or to be
received by you in connection with a Change in Control of the Company or your
termination of employment (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or
any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any person whose
actions result in a Change in Control of the Company or any person affiliated
with the Company or such person) (which, together with the Severance Payments,
shall constitute the "Total Payments") shall be treated as "parachute payments"
within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code, and all "excess


                                      -12-


<PAGE>   13



parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) shall be treated as
subject to the Excise Tax, unless in the opinion of tax counsel selected by the
Company's independent auditors and acceptable to you such other payments or
benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, or such
excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable
compensation for services actually rendered within the meaning of Section
280G(b)(4) of the Code in excess of the base amount within the meaning of
Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax,
(B) the amount of the Total Payments which shall be treated as subject to the
Excise Tax shall be equal to the lesser of (I) the total amount of the Total
Payments or (II) the amount of excess parachute payments within the meaning of
Section 280G(b)(1) (after applying clause (A), above), and (C) the value of any
non-cash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the
Company's independent auditors in accordance with the principles of Sections
280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code. For purposes of determining the amount of the
Gross-Up Payment, you shall be deemed to pay federal income taxes at the highest
marginal rate of federal income taxation in the calendar year in which the
Gross-Up Payment is to be made and state and local income taxes at the highest
marginal rate of taxation in the state and locality of your residence on the
Date of Termination, net of the maximum reduction in federal income taxes which
could be obtained from deduction of such state and local taxes. In the event
that the Excise Tax is subsequently determined to be less than the amount taken
into account hereunder at the time of termination of your employment, you shall
repay to the


                                      -13-


<PAGE>   14



Company at the time that the amount of such reduction in Excise Tax is finally
determined the portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction,
plus interest on the amount of such repayment at the rate provided in Section
1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code, provided that you shall be required to make such
repayment only if you are notified by the Company as to the amount of such
repayment within 12 months after payment of the Severance Payments to you. In
the event that the Excise Tax is determined to exceed the amount taken into
account hereunder at the time of the termination of your employment (including
by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined
at the time of the Gross-Up Payment), the Company shall make an additional
gross-up payment in respect of such excess (plus any interest payable with
respect to such excess) at the time that the amount of such excess is finally
determined.

                  (e) The payments provided for in Subsections 5(b), (c) and (d)
shall be made not later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination;
provided, however, that, if the amounts of such payments cannot be finally
determined on or before such day, the Company shall pay to you on such day an
estimate, as determined in good faith by the Company, of the minimum amount of
such payments and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with
interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) as soon as
the amount thereof can be determined but in no event later than the thirtieth
day after the Date of Termination. In the event that the amount of the estimated
payments exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such
excess shall constitute a

                                      -14-


<PAGE>   15



loan by the Company to you, payable on the fifth day after demand by the Company
(together with interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the
Code).

                  (f) Except as provided in the second sentence of Subsection
5(c)(iv) hereof, you shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment
provided for in this Section 5 by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor
shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Section 5 be
reduced by any compensation earned by you as a result of employment by another
employer, by retirement benefits or by offset against any amount claimed to be
owed by you to the Company or otherwise.

         6.       SUCCESSORS; BINDING AGREEMENT.

                  (a) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business or assets of the Company expressly to assume
and agree to perform this Agreement to the same extent that the Company would be
required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the
Company to obtain an assumption of this Agreement prior to the effectiveness of
any succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle you to
compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as you
would be entitled hereunder if you had terminated your employment for Good
Reason immediately after an Approved Change in Control of the Company, except
that for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such
succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Date of Termination. As used in
this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the


                                      -15-


<PAGE>   16



Company as defined above and any successor to its business or assets as
aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of
law, or otherwise.

                  (b) This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be
enforceable by your personal or legal representatives, executors,
administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If you
should die while any amount would still be payable to you hereunder if you had
continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be
paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or
other designee or if there is no such designee, to your estate.

         7.       NOTICE. For the purposes of this Agreement, notices and all
other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be duly given when delivered or when mailed by United States registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to the
President of the Company, at Two Technology Way, Norwood, Massachusetts 02062,
and to you at the address shown above or to such other address as either the
Company or you may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance
herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon
receipt.

         8.       MISCELLANEOUS.

                  (a) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of
this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other
provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.


                                      -16-


<PAGE>   17



                  (b) The validity, interpretation, construction and performance
of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts.

                  (c) No waiver by you at any time of any breach of, or
compliance with, any provision of this Agreement to be performed by the Company
shall be deemed a waiver of that or any other provision at any subsequent time.

                  (d) This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,
each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will
constitute one and the same instrument.

                  (e) Any payments provided for hereunder shall be paid net of
any applicable withholding required under federal, state or local law.

                  (f) This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of the
parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and supersedes
all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications,
representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any officer, employee
or representative of any party hereto; and any prior agreement of the parties
hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein is hereby terminated
and cancelled.


                                      -17-


<PAGE>   18



         If this letter sets forth our agreement on the subject matter hereof,
kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter, which
will then constitute our agreement on this subject.


                                         Sincerely,

                                         ANALOG DEVICES, INC.




                                         By_____________________________________

Agreed to this 16th day of January, 1989


________________________________________
         (Signature)

________________________________________
         Print Name

Address:   _____________________________
           _____________________________



                                      -18-


<PAGE>   19



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.




                                             September 4, 1991

c/o Analog Devices, Inc.
Two Technology Way
Norwood, MA  02062

Re:      Amendment to Employee Retention Agreement

Dear

This letter is to confirm that the Employee Retention Agreement dated 
January 16, 1989, between you and Analog Devices. Inc. is hereby amended as
follows:

         In Section 5(c) (ii) (A) and (B), the phrase "200% of" is changed to
         "2.99 multiplied by".

In all other respects, such Employee Retention Agreement shall remain in force
and effect in accordance with the terms thereof.

                                             Very truly yours.

                                             ANALOG DEVICES, INC.


                                             By_________________________________




Agreed to:

____________________________________


                                      -19-


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.35
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>FACTORY BUILDING AGREEMENT
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1

                                                                   Exhibit 10.35


<TABLE>
<S>                                                    <C>
CONTRACT DOC NO  AC881                                          DIVISION PMI

PARTIES           ELLIOTT'S ENTERPRISE CO., LTD.       DIVISION CONTACT ALICE CHEN
                  7F NO. 9 WU KUNG 5TH ROAD                             RICHARD FORREST
                  WU KU INDUSTRIAL PARK
                  HSIN CHUNG CITY, TAIPEI HSIEN        EFFECTIVE DATE   SEPT. 19, 1996
                  TAIWAN.
                                                       TERMINATION DATE DEC. 31, 2001

                  REN MIN COMPANY LIMITED              SALES REP
                  9 FIVE KUNG FIVE ROAD, HSIN
                  CHUN, TAIWAN (53,364 SQ. FT.)        CONTRACT TYPE    LEASE

                                                       COUNTRY          TAIWAN

                                                       CONTR STORAGE LOCAT FILES
                                                                 (REAL ESTATE)

CONTACT           HUANG YING LIANG                     CONTRACT TEX LOCAT
                                                       REMARKS
                                                       REAL ESTATE LEASE FOR ADI'S PLANT
                                                       IN TAIWAN. THIS FILE ALSO CONTAINS
                                                       THE TAIWAN LEASE FOR THE 5TH
                                                       FLOOR.

ANALOG ATTORNEY     LEE & LI                           There are three leases; one for 2nd floor, one
                                                       for 3rd and 4th floors and one for 5th floor.
                                                       Each has an option to extend for 3 to 5 years.
                                                       Note that the options can be exercised
                                                       individually, meaning not all must be
PARTY ATTORNEY      UNKNOWN                            exercised together. If certain floors are no
                                                       longer needed, that option can be allowed to
                                                       lapse while the others are exercised.  There
                                                       are options for additional space. (EXPIRES
ADI INHOUSE ATT     WA WISE                            12.31.96)

WORD FILE NAME                                         LEASE FOR FLOORS, 1-5 IN FACTORY
                                                       BUILDING 9 FIVE-KUNG-FIVE ROAD, HSIN
                  GO TO WORD FILE                      CHUN, TAIPEI HSIEN, TAIWAN
</TABLE>






<PAGE>   2



                                  (Translation)

                        FACTORY BUILDING LEASE AGREEMENT


This Agreement is entered into on Sep. 19, 1996 by and between Lessor, Ren Min
Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as "Party A") and Lessee, Analog
Devices Taiwan Limited (hereinafter referred to as "Party B") for lease of the
Premises as defined below under the terms and conditions set forth below.

Article I -      Description of the Premises

1.       Party A hereby agrees to continue to lease to Party B, and Party B
         hereby agrees to continue to lease from Party A, the entire space of
         the first, second, third, fourth and fifth floors (totalling 53,364
         square feet) of the factory building situated at 9, Five-Kung-Five
         Road, Hsin Chun, Taipei Hsien, and some ancillary facilities and
         improvements as agreed upon by the parties (hereinafter referred to as
         "Premises") Party B is hereby granted a preferential right to
         additionally lease the sixth and/or seventh floor(s) in the same
         factory building according to Article 15 of this Agreement.

2.       The ancillary facilities and improvements mentioned in Paragraph (1)
         above shall include a parking space sufficient for 25 car parks and
         such basic fire protecting facilities as fire fighting water hose and
         emergency lights, etc.

3.       The parties hereto acknowledge that the Premises included in this
         Agreement have been leased by Party A to Party B and are currently
         being used by Party B and that the existing lease agreements for the
         Premises will continue to be in full force once effect until December
         31, 1996 and shall not be terminated or otherwise affected by the
         execution of this Agreement.

Article 2 -      Warranties Regarding the Title over and Quality of the Premises

1.       Party A hereby warrants that during the term of this Agreement and any
         renewal thereof, the Premises are and shall remain the property of
         Party A.

2.       Party A hereby warrants that the Premises can be lawfully leased to and
         used by Party B as factory premises.

3.       Party A hereby warrants that the Premises are in good quality and
         suitable for use as a factory, and that the occupancy permits have been
         obtained for the factory building in question.


                                       -2-


<PAGE>   3



4.       Party A further warrants that Party B has the right to make use of and
         get access to the Premises free from any interference of the other
         parties (including the owner of land and the government authorities).
         Party A shall also be responsible for keeping the access road and
         entrance free from any barrier so as to satisfy the requirement of
         Party B's operation.

Article 3 - Term of Lease

1.       This Agreement shall take effect from January 1, 1997 and unless early
         terminated pursuant to this Agreement, shall continue in full force and
         effect for a period of five years ending on December 31, 2001. Upon
         expiration of the five-year term, Party B shall have a right to renew
         this Agreement for another period from five to seven years. In
         addition, Party B is hereby granted a right of first refusal to
         additionally lease any and all spaces in the sixth and/or seventh
         floor(s) of the same factory building during the initial term or any
         renewal period thereof.

2.       If Party B desires to renew the lease after the expiration of the
         five-year term, it shall give Party A a renewal notice in writing at
         least one year prior to the expiration of the initial term and shall
         agree upon in writing with Party A the rental for such renewal term
         prior to the expiration of the initial term. The rental for the renewal
         term shall exclude the costs of basic fire protecting facilities as set
         forth in Article 1 hereof and shall not exceed the rental level
         available for identical or similar factory building in the
         neighborhood.

3.       In case Party B desires to exercise the right of first refusal with
         respect to the other floors of the same factory building, it shall also
         give Party A a one-year prior written notice. The rental thereof shall
         be calculated according to the same rental for the third, fourth or
         fifth floor then in effect.

Article 4 - Rental and Deposit

1.       The rental for the Premises other than the parking spaces shall be
         fixed at NT$1,145,000 per month during five-year lease term (monthly
         rental for each and every floor is set forth in Annex A attached hereto
         for reference). The rental for the parking spaces shall be fixed at
         NT$1,500 per month per each space during the five-year lease term. The
         monthly rental for the renewal period shall be determined in accordance
         with Article 3, Paragraph (2), of this Agreement.

2.       The rental shall be payable by Party B to Party A in every three months
         no later than the fifth day from the beginning of each payment period.
         The valued-added tax leviable on the rental. Party A shall issue a
         uniform invoice in. full amount against the payment of rental
         (including the VAT) by Party B.


                                       -3-


<PAGE>   4



3.       A deposit in the amount of $3,435,000 had been paid to and received by
         Party A (Note: Under the current lease, Party B had already paid a
         deposit in the amount of NT$3,835,500 which is in excess of the deposit
         required under this Agreement. The excess amount of NT$400,500 shall be
         refunded by Party A to Party B, without any interest, upon the
         effective date of this Agreement on January 1, 1997). Upon expiration
         or early termination of this Agreement, Party A shall refund to Party B
         the deposit without interest at the time when Party B has vacated the
         premises. in the event the Premises are subject to attachment by the
         court, or sold or the title thereof is transferred to a third party,
         Party B shall have the right to offset the undue rental in full against
         the deposit, unless the assignee of the Premises confirms in writing
         that he has received from Party A the deposit and undertaken to accept
         the assignment of this Agreement.

4.       In case Party A has breached any of the warranties set forth in Article
         2 of this Agreement, which makes Party B unable to lawfully use the
         Premises, Party B shall have a right to cancel this Agreement upon
         serving a written notice to Party A. In case this Agreement is so
         canceled, Party A shall immediately return to Party B the deposit and
         the undue rental plus an interest to be calculated according to the
         statutory interest rate.

Article 5 - Period for Vacation of the Premises

Upon expiration or early termination of this Agreement, Party B shall be given a
period of three months to vacate the Premises, provided that Party B shall
continue to pay the rental for the period from the expiration or termination of
the term of lease till the date of completion of its vacation of the Premises at
the rental rate prevailing on the expiration or termination date.

Any production equipment and commodities left over at the Premises after the
expiration of the said three-month period shall belong to and be subject to free
disposal of Party A. Should Party A be unwilling to retain such equipment or
commodities and has to dispose of the same, the costs and expenses so incurred
shall be borne by Party B and Party A may deduct the same from the deposit.

Article 6 - Purpose of Lease

The Premises are leased to Party B for its operation of the business as
specified in its Company License.

Article 7 - Improvements by Party B

1.       In order to use the Premises as a factory to operate its business,
         Party B has the right at any time and from time to time to add, modify
         and increase or decrease water and power facilities as well as to
         install necessary equipment and facilities


                                       -4-


<PAGE>   5



         as required for business operation (hereinafter referred to as "Party
         B's Improvements"). Any of the change on the structure of the factory
         building shall, nevertheless, be approved by Party A in advance, which
         approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. For the purpose of
         proceeding the Party B's Improvements, if Party A is required to
         provide written consent and other relevant documents and/or application
         in the name of Party A for government approval, permit or license,
         Party A shall agree to forthwith provide such documents and necessary
         cooperation and assistance. When Party B vacates the Premises upon
         expiration or termination of this Agreement, any of the Party B's
         improvements attached to the Premises that cannot be removed shall
         belong to Party A. in case the registration of title transfer is
         required therefor, such registration shall be filed by Party A on its
         own account and any tax registration fees and other charges arising
         therefrom shall also be borne by Party A.

2.       Party A agrees to undertake the responsibility of ensuring the
         availability and free access by Party B of the roads and entrances
         surrounding the Premises and agrees to resolve any problem so
         encountered by Party B therefrom. In addition, Party B shall have the
         right to get access to the premises, on a 24-hour a day and 7-day a
         week basis.

Article 8 -       Repair and Maintenance of the Premises

During the term of this Agreement, regular maintenance and repair of the
Premises shall be the responsibility of Party A. Any damages caused by force
majeure shall be repaired immediately by Party A, and for the period before the
said repair is completed, Party B is entitled to rental reduction or rental free
depending upon the extent of unavailability of the Premises. If Party A refuses
or delays to repair, Party B shall have the right to do the job by itself and
request Party A to reimburse the costs or to deduct the costs from the rental
payable.

Article 9 -       Tax, Dues, Water and Power Supplies and Other Charges

1.       Tax and dues leviable in connection with the Premises shall be borne by
         Party A. Charges of water and power supplies incurred from the use of
         the Premises by Party B during the term of lease shall be borne by
         Party B. Costs of water and power supply facilities added by Party B
         during the term of lease shall also be borne by Party B.

2.       Party A shall arrange for the availability of a 24-hour security
         service and a 10-hour security guard for the factory building. The
         costs and expenses incurred therefrom shall be shared by Party A and
         Party B according to their respective occupancies of the factory
         building.

                                       -5-


<PAGE>   6



3.       Party A shall, at its own account, purchase fire and accident
         insurances to cover the Premises and the factory building. Any
         insurance relating to the facilities and equipment owned by Party B
         shall be the sole responsibility of Party B.

Article 10 - Destruction and Damages of the Premises

During the term of lease, if any destruction and damage of the Premises, totally
or partially, should occur due to causes not attributable to Party B's act,
Party A shall be responsible for the restoration thereof. During the restoration
period, Party B may claim rental deduction or exemption, subject to the extent
of availability of the Premises. However, in the case of substantial destruction
and damage, Party A or Party B is entitled to claim extinguishing of the Lease.

Article 11 - Subletting

1.       With the prior written consent of Party A which consent shall not be
         unreasonably withheld, Party B may assign this Agreement, or sublet or
         lend to a third party all or any part of the Premises. In addition,
         Party B shall be entitled to assign this Agreement, or sublet or lend
         all or any part of the premises to any affiliated enterprise of Party
         B's main investors upon a prior notice to Party A, provided that the
         use of the Premises shall comply with Article 6 hereof.

2.       In case Party B has breached its obligations under Paragraph (1) of
         this Article, Party A may terminate this Agreement or request the third
         party sublessee to move out of the Premises within two months, with the
         costs and expenses to be borne by Party B. During the period between
         the termination of the lease and the vacation of the Premises or during
         the removal period, Party B shall continue to pay the rental or Party A
         may deduct the same from the deposit.

Article 12 - Termination of this Agreement before Expiration

1.       Unless otherwise provided herein, if the Premises are no longer able to
         be used by Party B pursuant to the Section entitled "Purposes of the
         Lease" contained in Article 6 hereof because of change of laws or due
         to any other reasons not attributable to either Party, Party B shall be
         entitled to terminate this Agreement in writing at any time. Party B is
         also entitled to terminate this Agreement if it intends to cease
         business operation at the Premises, provided that it shall give a 6
         months' prior written notice to Party A. If this Agreement is
         terminated in accordance with this Article, Party A shall return the
         deposit and the prepaid but unused rental without any interest to Party
         B at the same time as Party B moves out of the premises in accordance
         with this Agreement.

2.       Party B shall not produce, sell or store in the premises unlawful
         articles or any articles dangerous to public safety, or conduct any
         activities against the


                                       -6-


<PAGE>   7



         government policy. In case of violation, Party B shall be solely
         responsible for any result thereof. If Party B's business operation is
         so suspended by the order of the government, Party A shall have the
         right to terminate this Agreement.

Article 13 - Return of the Premises

Upon expiration, termination or extinction of this Agreement, Party B shall move
its production equipment, materials, finished products, office furniture or any
other objects out of the premises and return the premises to Party A within 3
months, and shall not claim any compensation. of the removal costs. In the event
of any damages to the Premises due to Party B's fault, Party B shall be liable
for any repair to restore the Premises to the original condition as soon as
possible. However, if the damages are caused due to normal wear or causes not
attributable to Party B, Party B shall not be responsible for such damage. Any
of the Party B's Improvements that are unable to be removed shall be surrendered
to Party A in their existing condition. At the time of return of the premises,
in the event of any damage which Party B is liable for repair, Party A may
withhold from the returnable deposit an amount equivalent to the repair
expenses, and return the balance thereof to Party B after the repair is
completed by Party B. However, Party B may opt to give up the deposit withheld
by Party A and be exempt from the repair responsibility. When Party B receives
the deposit and the prepaid but unused rental returned by Party A, Party B shall
provide the original copy of the Factory License and the application for
cancellation of the factory registration to Party A so that Party A may apply
for cancellation of the registration of Party B's factory registration.

Article 14 - Punishment for Default

1.       In case of delay of the rental payment, Party B shall pay to Party A a
         delay interest calculated at the prevailing highest bank loan annual
         interest rate on the delayed rental for the days delayed until the date
         of full payment. If Party B delays in paying the rental for three
         months or more, Party A may terminate the lease hereof and may deduct
         from the returnable deposit the amount equivalent to one month's rental
         as liquidated damage for the termination thereof.

2.       If Party B fails to move out of the Premises within 3 months after the
         expiration, termination or extinction of this Agreement, it shall pay
         Party A a daily default penalty at a rate of two times of the said
         rental, counting from the day of the expiration of the said 3-month
         period to the day of return of the Premises. Party A may also deduct
         such penalty from the deposit. On the contrary, if Party A fails to
         return to Party B the returnable deposit and the prepaid but unused
         rental at the time as Party B moves out of the Premises, Party B may
         refuse to deliver the Premises, and Party A shall pay delay interest
         calculated at the prevailing highest bank loan annual interest rate on
         the returnable but not returned amount, counting until the day of
         return of the said amount.



                                       -7-


<PAGE>   8



Article 15 - Right of First Refusal

1.       During the term of this Agreement, if Party A desires to lease any of
         the other floors in the same factory building to others, Party B shall
         have the right of first refusal to lease the same under the same terms
         and conditions as set forth in this Agreement. In case Party B requires
         any other floors of the same factory building for its business
         expansion and Party A has vacant floors available for lease, Party B
         shall also have the preferential right to lease such floors under the
         same terms and conditions as set forth in this Agreement.

2.       During the term of this Agreement, if Party A intends to sell the
         Premises to a third party, Party B shall have the right of first
         refusal to purchase the same. Party A shall notify Party B in writing
         of the provisions of sale and purchase of the premises agreed between
         Party A and the third party, and shall give Party B a three-month
         period to exercise such right. If Party B decides to exercise the
         right, an agreement of sale and purchase shall take effect at the time
         as Party B's written notice stating the exercise of such right has been
         served on Party A. The parties hereto shall then perform their
         respective obligations pursuant to the provisions of sale and purchase
         contained in the original written notice from Party A, and this
         Agreement shall terminate as of the date on which Party B retains the
         title of the Premises. In the event of any delay of Party B's
         acquisition of the premises due to reasons attributable to Party A,
         Party B is not required to pay any rental for the delay period.

         If Party B fails to exercise its right of first refusal within the
         prescribed period, Party A is entitled to sell the Premises to the
         third party in accordance with the provisions of sale and purchase
         originally notified to Party B, provided that this Agreement shall in
         no event be affected. Moreover, Party A shall be responsible to ensure
         that such purchaser would execute a written acknowledgement agreeing to
         be bound by this Agreement and to be liable for the return of the
         deposit. In the event of any alteration in the provisions of sale and
         purchase by which Party A intends to sell the Premises to a third
         party, Party B shall also enjoy the same right of first refusal in
         accordance with the altered provisions of sale and purchase.

3.       After the Premises have been purchased by Party B or the parties hereto
         have reached an agreement of sale and purchase in accordance with this
         Article, Party A shall not claim any interest on any of the Party B's
         Improvements.


                                       -8-


<PAGE>   9



Article 16

This Agreement is executed in duplicate with each party holding one original as
evidence.

                                    Party A:

                                                Ren Min Company Limited



                                                By: /s/ [illegible signature]
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                Title: Chairman of the Board
                                                       Address:


                                    Party B:

                                                Analog Devices Taiwan Limited



                                                By: /s/ Joe McDonough
                                                    ----------------------------
                                                Title: Chairman of the Board
                                                       Address:



                                       -9-


<PAGE>   10


                       AGREED MONTHLY RENT - JULY 25, 1996

                                                                 Unit: NT$/Month


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
FLOOR               SQUARE FOOT      PING           1997           1998           1999           2000           2001         TOTAL
- -----               -----------      ----           ----           ----           ----           ----           ----         -----

<S>                      <C>          <C>     <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>           <C>      
1st Floor                10,195       287        290,000        290,000        290,000        290,000        290,000     1,450,000

2nd Floor                 9,857       277        195,000        195,000        195,000        195,000        195,000       975,000

3rd Floor                11,104       312        220,000        220,000        220,000        220,000        220,000     1,100,000

4th Floor                11,104       312        220,000        220,000        220,000        220,000        220,000     1,100,000

5TH FLOOR                11,104       312        220,000        220,000        220,000        220,000        220,000     1,100,000
- ---------                ------     -----     ----------     ----------     ----------     ----------     ----------    ----------

Total/Month:             53,364     1,500      1,145,000      1,145,000      1,145,000      1,145,000      1,145,000     5,725,000

Total/Year:                                   13,740,000     13,740,000     13,740,000     13,740,000     13,740,000    68,700,000

Increase %:                                              0%             0%             0%             0%
</TABLE>


NOTE:  THE MONTHLY RENTAL WITH NO INCREASE UNTIL THE END OF 2001.

FLOOR              CURRENT 1996
- -----              ------------

1st Floor               250,000

2nd Floor               192,950

3rd Floor               192,950

4th Floor               192,950

5TH FLOOR               180,000
- ---------            ----------

Total/Month:          1,008,850

Total/Year:          12,106,200

Increase %:   A 13.5% increase for 1997





                                      -10-





<PAGE>   11
     This Exhibit 10.35 represents a fair and accurate English translation of a
Lease agreement dated September 19, 1996 between Ren Min Company Limited and
Analog Devices Taiwan Limited relating to the premises at Five-Kung-Five Road,
Taipei, Taiwan.


                                  ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                                  By: /s/ William A. Martin
                                     ------------------------------
                                  Title: Treasurer
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11.1
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTAION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    Exhibit 11.1

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                 COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE (UNAUDITED)
                     (in thousands, except per share data)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                              TWELVE MONTHS ENDED
                                                                              -------------------

                                                             NOVEMBER 1, 1997     NOVEMBER 2, 1996   OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                                             ----------------     ----------------   ----------------

PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE


<S>                                                              <C>                 <C>                  <C>    
Weighted average common and common equivalent shares:

   Weighted average common shares outstanding...............          159,414             153,221              149,269
   Assumed exercise of common stock equivalents (1).........            7,064               8,512                9,446
   Assumed conversion of subordinated notes.................           10,985               9,556                    -
                                                                  -----------         -----------         ------------
   Weighted average common and common
    equivalent shares.......................................          177,463             171,289              158,715
                                                                  ===========         ===========         ============

Net income..................................................      $   178,219         $   171,901         $    119,270
Interest related to convertible subordinated
   notes, net of tax........................................            5,700               4,990                    -
                                                                  -----------         -----------         ------------

Earnings available for common stock.........................      $   183,919         $   176,891         $    119,270
                                                                  ===========         ===========         ============

PRIMARY EARNINGS PER SHARE..................................      $      1.04         $      1.03         $        .75
                                                                  ===========         ===========         ============

FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE

Weighted average common and common equivalent shares:
   Weighted average common shares outstanding...............          159,414             153,221              149,269
   Assumed exercise of common stock equivalents (1).........            7,386               8,726                9,692
   Assumed conversion of subordinated notes.................           10,985               9,556                    -
                                                                  -----------         -----------         ------------
   Weighted average common and common
    equivalent shares.......................................          177,785             171,503              158,961
                                                                  ===========         ===========         ============

Net income..................................................      $   178,219         $   171,901         $    119,270
Interest related to convertible subordinated
   notes, net of tax........................................            5,700               4,990                    -
                                                                  -----------         -----------         ------------

Earnings available for common stock.........................      $   183,919         $   176,891         $    119,270
                                                                  ===========         ===========         ============

FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE............................      $      1.04         $      1.03         $        .75
                                                                  ===========         ===========         ============
</TABLE>

(1)  Computed based on the treasury stock method.



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13-1


                               MANAGEMENT ANALYSIS

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits ("ICs") that address a wide range of real-world signal
processing applications. The Company's principal products include
general-purpose, standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs ("SLICs") and
system-level ICs. The latter group includes general-purpose digital signal
processing ICs ("DSPs") and application-specific devices that typically
incorporate analog and mixed-signal circuitry and a DSP core.

Nearly all of Analog's products are components, which are typically incorporated
by original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") in a wide range of equipment and
systems for use in communications, computer, industrial, instrumentation,
military/aerospace, automotive and high-performance consumer electronics
applications.

The Company sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force,
third-party industrial distributors and independent sales representatives.
Approximately 46% of fiscal 1997 revenue was derived from customers in North
America, while most of the balance was derived from customers in Western Europe
and the Far East.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

FISCAL 1997 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1996

Fiscal 1997 sales of $1,243 million were up 4% year to year, despite a sluggish
first half of the year. The first half of the year was adversely affected by
excess inventories at end customers which had accumulated during the prior year
when lead times had increased due to manufacturing capacity constraints. During
the second half of fiscal 1997 demand increased and sales growth resumed.

Standard linear IC product sales contributed significantly to Analog's growth
during fiscal 1997. SLICs are primarily high-performance, single-function
devices. The majority of SLIC revenue was attributable to sales of data
converters (analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog) and amplifiers. The
Company's products were sold to a broad customer base throughout the world with
virtually all channels of distribution and all geographies showing increased
sales. Recently introduced high speed products contributed to this growth.
Products used in communications and imaging applications experienced good growth
during fiscal 1997. SLIC sales represented 61% of the Company's total sales
during fiscal 1997 compared to 57% during fiscal 1996.

Sales of system-level IC products declined slightly as the Company experienced a
decline in sales of computer audio products, GSM (Global System for Mobile
Communications) cellular phone chipsets and products used in automatic test
equipment. System-level ICs include general purpose DSP ICs and multi-function
devices that feature high levels of functional integration on a single chip.
Most of the multi-function ICs are mixed signal devices, others are linear-only
devices. System level IC product sales represented 35% of the Company's total
sales during fiscal 1997 compared to 38% during fiscal 1996.

Sales of assembled products continued to decline during fiscal 1997 and
represented only 4% of the Company's total sales during fiscal 1997 and 5%
during fiscal 1996. Assembled products include multi-chip modules, hybrids and
printed board modules.

Sales to North American customers increased significantly over fiscal 1996.
Sales in Europe and Japan remained essentially flat in comparison to the prior
year. A decline in sales in Southeast Asia was attributable to the decline in
computer audio sales partially offset by an increase in SLIC sales in the
region. As a percentage of total net sales, sales outside North America were 54%
in fiscal 1997 as compared to 58% in fiscal 1996. For further detail regarding
geographic information, see Note 3 in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Gross margin was 50.0% of sales for fiscal 1997 compared to 50.3% for fiscal
1996. The slight reduction in gross margin for the year-over-year period was
principally due to a change in the mix of products sold and increased costs
associated with new manufacturing facilities.

                                       1
<PAGE>   2


Research and development ("R&D") expenses increased approximately 10% in fiscal
1997 to $196 million or 15.8% of sales. This increase was mainly due to the
continued development of innovative SLIC products and processes and higher
spending in the development of new products and technologies targeted for the
communications, computer and automotive markets, including initiatives in
general-purpose digital signal processing, system-level ICs for modem and
wireless communications applications, RF signal processing, broadband wired
communications, micromachining technology and accelerometer products. The
Company believes that a continued commitment to research and development is
essential in order to maintain product leadership in its existing products and
to provide innovative new product offerings, and therefore expects to continue
to make significant investments in research and development in the future.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative ("SMG&A") expenses were $192
million, a decrease of $4 million from the $196 million recorded in the prior
year. This decline was principally the result of the Company's commitment to
constrain spending during the recent period of slower sales growth, along with
reduced bonus payments to employees. As a result, SMG&A expense as a percentage
of sales fell to 15.4% from 16.4% for the year earlier period.

In total, operating expenses as a percentage of sales remained essentially flat
at 31.2%, consistent with the Company's emphasis on maintaining tight control
over operating costs in order to gain better operating leverage on increases in
revenue.

The Company's operating income ratio decreased slightly to 18.8% of sales for
fiscal 1997, compared to 19.0% for fiscal 1996, as a result of all of the
factors cited above.

The effective income tax rate decreased to 24.4% in fiscal 1997 from 25.5% in
fiscal 1996 due to a shift in the mix of worldwide income and due to a larger
R&D credit realized in fiscal 1997 compared to fiscal 1996. Since it is not
assured that the Company will realize capital gains income, the Company has
included on its balance sheet a valuation allowance of $5.6 million at November
1, 1997. The valuation allowance balance was $7.4 million at November 2, 1996.
The net change in the valuation allowance for the fiscal year ended November 1,
1997 was due to the expiration of unused capital loss carryforwards for tax
purposes.

Net income increased 4% to $178 million in fiscal 1997 compared to $172 million
in fiscal 1996. Earnings per share in fiscal 1997 increased $.01 to $1.04 from
$1.03 in fiscal 1996.

The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" and Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" which will require adoption in fiscal 1999. The Company is in the
process of determining the effect of the adoption of these statements on its
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.

The impact of inflation on the Company's business during the past three years
has not been significant.

FISCAL 1996 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1995

Net sales of $1,194 million in fiscal 1996 increased 27% from fiscal 1995.
Fiscal year 1996 sales growth was attributable to significant increases in sales
volumes of both the Company's standard linear IC and system-level IC products as
worldwide demand for precision integrated circuit products increased in the
first half of fiscal 1996. During the third and fourth quarters a broadbased
inventory correction by end users, customers and distributors in response to the
shorter leadtimes available for many products from the Company and other
suppliers caused sales levels to be flat with the second quarter.

Sales of the Company's standard linear IC products contributed significantly to
Analog's growth. Standard linear IC sales, however, declined as a percentage of
total sales, accounting for 57% of total sales in fiscal 1996 compared to 64% in
fiscal 1995 due to the high sales growth for system-level IC products. The
growth in sales of standard linear ICs was driven by the greater use of standard
linear IC products in new high-volume applications in wireless and broadband
communications, computer and consumer markets including digital cellular
handsets and base stations, video applications and imaging applications. In
fiscal 1996, the distributor channel was a significant growth channel for the
Company's standard linear IC product line.

                                       2
<PAGE>   3


Sales of system-level ICs experienced rapid growth as the Company achieved gains
in its general-purpose digital signal processing products and mixed-signal ICs
for application-specific system-on-a-chip solutions. The largest end user market
growth for the Company's system-level IC products was in wireless communications
applications, including digital mobile phones and base stations. As a percentage
of total sales, system-level IC products increased to 38% of total sales
compared to 28% in fiscal 1995.

Sales of the Company's assembled products continued to decline and as a
percentage of total sales decreased from 8% to 5% over this same period.

In fiscal 1996, sales to North American customers increased significantly over
fiscal 1995. Sales to customers outside North America, primarily Europe and
Southeast Asia also increased significantly. European growth resulted from the
Company's penetration of applications in the communications market, particularly
in handsets and base stations used in the GSM digital cellular telephone system.
The increase in sales to customers in Southeast Asia was due to increased demand
for products in the hard disk drive, communications and computer products
segments. Sales in Japan increased slightly. As a percentage of total sales,
North American and international sales accounted for 42% and 58%, respectively,
whereas the comparable percentages were 44% and 56% in fiscal 1995.

Gross margin was 50.3% of sales in fiscal 1996 compared to 50.7% of sales in
fiscal 1995. The reduction in gross margin was principally due to a lower
proportion of standard linear IC products in the mix of products sold, which
generally have higher gross margins than the Company's system-level IC products.
The reduction in gross margin in fiscal 1996 was also attributable to increased
costs associated with increased capacity combined with the leveling off of sales
in the latter half of the year.

R&D expenses for fiscal 1996 increased 32% from fiscal 1995 as the Company
continued to invest in new product development. As a percentage of sales, R&D
expenses were 14.9% in fiscal 1996 compared to 14.3% in fiscal 1995.

Selling, marketing, general and administrative expense growth in fiscal 1996 was
5.9%, increasing from $185 million in fiscal 1995 to $196 million in fiscal
1996. SMG&A expenses declined as a percentage of sales to 16.4% in fiscal 1996
compared to 19.6% in fiscal 1995, consistent with the Company's goal of
constraining SMG&A spending growth to a rate significantly below sales growth.
The increase in SMG&A expenses in absolute dollars was primarily related to
higher employee bonus payments associated with improved revenue and
profitability levels, and greater product advertising and related promotional
costs and commissions in support of the Company's product lines and customer
base.

Operating income grew 44% to 19% of sales compared to 17% of sales in fiscal
1995. This performance gain reflected the combination of accelerated demand for
the Company's products and continuing commitment to growing expenses more slowly
than sales.

Nonoperating income of $1.7 million in fiscal 1995 improved to $3.6 million in
fiscal 1996. Interest expense in fiscal 1996 increased from fiscal 1995 as a
result of the issuance of $230,000,000 of 3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes
in December 1995 but this increase was more than offset by increased investment
income as a result of the positive spread between the 3 1/2% coupon rate and the
investment rates achieved on available cash balances through fiscal 1996.

The effective income tax rate increased to 25.5% in fiscal 1996 from 25.2% in
fiscal 1995 due to earnings growth in higher tax rate jurisdictions including
the U.S. The Company maintained a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets of
$7.4 million at November 2, 1996 based on management's assessment that
realization of such deferred tax assets was not assured for book and tax capital
losses. The valuation allowance balance was $10 million at October 28, 1995. The
net change in the valuation allowance for the fiscal year ended November 2, 1996
was a decrease of $2.6 million as a result of the utilization of book basis
foreign tax credits and the use of capital tax loss carryforwards.

The growth in sales, improved operating performance and lower nonoperating
expenses yielded a 44.1% rise in net income to $171.9 million or 14.4% of sales
in fiscal 1996 compared to $119.3 million or 12.7% of sales in fiscal 1995.
Earnings per share in fiscal 1996 grew 37% to $1.03 from $0.75 in fiscal 1995.


                                       3
<PAGE>   4


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At November 1, 1997, the Company had $341 million of cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments compared to $300 million at November 2, 1996. The
Company's operating activities generated net cash of $297 million, or 24% of
sales, and $144 million, or 12% of sales, in fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996,
respectively. Investing activities used $237 million in fiscal 1997 and $305
million in fiscal 1996 while financing activities generated $15 million in
fiscal 1997 and $301 million in fiscal 1996. The Company's primary source of
funds in fiscal year 1997 was net cash generated by operations. The issuance of
long-term convertible debt which generated $224 million was the primary source
of funding in fiscal 1996.

Accounts receivable of $256 million at the end of fiscal 1997 increased $22
million or 9% from $234 million at the end of fiscal 1996. This increase
resulted principally from the $28 million increase in sales from the fourth
quarter of fiscal 1996 to the fourth quarter of fiscal 1997. The number of days
sales outstanding remained flat and as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter
sales accounts receivable was 19.2% at the end of both of these periods.
Accounts receivable reserves and allowances increased from $15 million at the
end of fiscal 1996 to $40 million at the end of fiscal 1997. This increase was
caused by additional reserves deemed necessary particularly in South East Asia
and reserves required because of increased activity in the N.A. distributor
channel.

Inventories rose $7 million or 3% over the prior year to $226 million at the end
of fiscal 1997. Inventories as a percentage of annualized fourth quarter sales
decreased to 17% for the year ended November 1, 1997 from 18% for the year ended
November 2, 1996.

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities increased $6 million or 4% compared to
the balance at the end of fiscal 1996 due principally to increased expense
activity related to higher revenue and increased capital expenditures in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1997 when compared to the year earlier period.

The Company's principal investment activities during fiscal 1997 were in support
of its manufacturing facility improvement programs and included capital
expenditures of $179 million and an investment of $42 million which was a second
installment on an 18% share in a wafer fabrication facility on a joint venture
basis with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company ("TSMC") and a further
deposit of $12 million paid to Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd.
("CSM"), a wafer fabrication company in Singapore.

Capital expenditures in fiscal 1997 of $179 million, were $55 million lower than
in the prior year when major capacity expansion programs were underway. The
expenditures in fiscal 1997 included the ongoing expansion and upgrade of the
Company's existing wafer fabrication facilities in Wilmington, Massachusetts and
Limerick, Ireland. During fiscal 1997 an additional wafer fabrication facility
in Cambridge, Massachusetts was made available for the production of the
accelerometer and other micromachined products. In addition, the Company
continued the development of the six-inch wafer fabrication module located in
Sunnyvale, California. This facility is still in the process of being upgraded
and modernized and a CBCMOS process is being developed and the facility is
expected to ramp during fiscal 1998. Also, during fiscal 1997 production began
in the Company's new assembly and test site in the Philippines. These expansion
programs caused depreciation expense to increase to $101 million in fiscal 1997
from $82 million in fiscal 1996.

During fiscal 1996 the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with TSMC
and other investors for the construction and operation of a semiconductor
fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. For a total commitment of $140
million, the Company acquired an 18% equity ownership in the joint venture,
known as WaferTech. The first installment of $42 million was paid in fiscal
1996. The second installment of $42 million was paid in December 1996 and the
remaining installment of $56 million was paid in fiscal 1998, on November 3,
1997.

In March 1997 and June 1997, in accordance with a previous agreement, the
Company made two payments of $6 million each to CSM for a total deposit of $20
million. In fiscal 1996 the Company provided $8 million to CSM under this
arrangement. This deposit is classified in the balance sheet line item, "Other
assets." Under the terms of this agreement, the deposit will guarantee access to
certain quantities of sub-micron wafers through fiscal 2000. If the Company does
not purchase the minimum quantities under the agreement, the deposit will be
forfeited for the value of the wafer shortfall up to the total amount of $20
million. At the end of the agreement term, the Company's deposit will be
returned, net of any forfeitures.

                                       4
<PAGE>   5


The Company currently plans to make capital expenditures of approximately $300
million in fiscal 1998, primarily in connection with the continued improvement
of its manufacturing facilities. Depreciation expense is expected to increase to
approximately $144 million in fiscal 1998 as a result of these additions.

In fiscal 1997 financing activities generated cash of $15 million. The issuance
of common stock under stock purchase and stock option plans generated cash of
$19 million, and proceeds from equipment financing generated cash of $7 million.
These increases were offset by $11 million of cash used for the repayment of
capital lease obligations and various other items resulting in net cash
generated of $3 million.

At November 1, 1997, the Company's principal sources of liquidity included $341
million of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Short-term
investments at the end of fiscal 1997 consisted of commercial paper,
certificates of deposit and Euro time deposits with maturities greater than
three months and less than six months at the time of acquisition. The Company
also has various lines of credit both in the U.S. and overseas, including a $60
million credit facility in the U.S. which expires in 2000, all of which were
substantially unused at the end of fiscal 1997. At the end of fiscal 1997, the
Company's debt-to-equity ratio was 33%.

The Company believes that its existing sources of liquidity and cash expected to
be generated from future operations, together with current and anticipated
available long-term financing, will be sufficient to fund operations, capital
expenditures and research and development efforts for the foreseeable future.

QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company's fixed rate debt obligations and related interest rate swap and cap
agreements are subject to interest rate risk. For example, a 100 basis point
increase in interest rates would not result in a material change in the
Company's interest expense or the fair value of the debt obligations and related
interest rate swap and cap agreements. An increase in interest rates would not
significantly increase interest expense due to the fixed nature of the Company's
debt obligations. The fair value of the Company's investment portfolio or
related interest income would not be significantly impacted by either a 100
basis point increase or decrease in interest rates due mainly to the short-term
nature of the major portion of the Company's investment portfolio and the
relative insignificance of interest income to consolidated pre-tax income,
respectively.

As more fully described in Note 2 (h) in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated
Financial Statements, the Company regularly hedges its non-U.S. dollar based
exposures by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency
option contracts and currency swap agreements. The terms of these contracts
typically are for periods matching the duration of the underlying exposure and
generally range from three months up to one year. The short-term nature of these
contracts has resulted in these instruments having insignificant fair values at
November 1, 1997. Relative to foreign currency exposures existing at November 1,
1997, a 10% unfavorable movement in foreign exchange rates would not expose the
Company to significant losses in earnings or cash flows or significantly
diminish the fair value of its foreign currency financial instruments, primarily
due to the short lives of the affected financial instruments that effectively
hedge substantially all of the Company's year-end exposures to fluctuations in
foreign currency exchange rates. The calculation assumes that each exchange rate
would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to
the direct effects of changes in exchange rates, such changes typically affect
the volume of sales or the foreign currency sales price as competitors' products
become more or less attractive. The Company's sensitivity analysis of the
effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not factor in a
potential change in sales levels or local currency selling prices.

LITIGATION

For information concerning certain pending litigation involving the Company, see
Note 8 in the Notes to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.

                                       5
<PAGE>   6


FACTORS WHICH MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS

The Company's future operating results are difficult to predict and may be
affected by a number of factors including the timing of new product
announcements or introductions by the Company and its competitors, competitive
pricing pressures, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, adequate availability
of wafers and manufacturing capacity, changes in product mix and economic
conditions in the United States and international markets. In addition, the
semiconductor market has historically been cyclical and subject to significant
economic downturns at various times. The Company is exposed to the risk of
obsolescence of its inventory depending on the mix of future business. As a
result of these and other factors, there can be no assurance that the Company
will not experience material fluctuations in future operating results on a
quarterly or annual basis.

The Company's success depends in part on its continued ability to develop and
market new products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to
develop and introduce new products in a timely manner or that such products, if
developed, will achieve market acceptance. In addition, the Company's growth is
dependent on its continued ability to penetrate new markets such as the
communications, computer and automotive segments of the electronics market,
where the Company has limited experience and competition is intense. There can
be no assurance that the markets being served by the Company will grow in the
future; that the Company's existing and new products will meet the requirements
of such markets; that the Company's products will achieve customer acceptance in
such markets; that competitors will not force prices to an unacceptably low
level or take market share from the Company; or that the Company can achieve or
maintain profits in these markets. Also, some of the customers in these markets
are less well established which could subject the Company to increased credit
risk.

The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Certain of the Company's
competitors have greater technical, marketing, manufacturing and financial
resources than the Company. The Company's competitors also include emerging
companies attempting to sell products to specialized markets such as those
served by the Company. Competitors of the Company have, in some cases, developed
and marketed products having similar design and functionality as the Company's
products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete
successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that the
Company's operating results will not be adversely affected by increased price
competition.

The Company has increased substantially its manufacturing capacity through both
expansion of its production facilities and increased access to third-party
foundries; there can be no assurance that the Company will not encounter
unanticipated production problems at either its own facilities or at third-party
foundries; or that the increased capacity will be sufficient to satisfy demand
for its products. The Company relies, and plans to continue to rely, on assembly
and test subcontractors and on third-party wafer fabricators to supply most of
its wafers that can be manufactured using industry-standard digital processes,
and such reliance involves several risks, including reduced control over
delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. In addition, the Company's
capacity additions will result in a significant increase in operating expenses,
and if revenue levels do not increase to offset these additional expense levels,
the Company's future operating results could be adversely affected, including
the potential adverse impact on operating results for "take or pay" covenants in
certain of its supply agreements. The Company's business is subject to rapid
technological changes and there can be no assurance that products stocked in
inventory will not be rendered obsolete before they are utilized by the Company.
The Company also believes that other semiconductor manufacturers are expanding
or planning to expand their production capacity over the next several years, and
there can be no assurance that the expansion by the Company and its competitors
will not lead to overcapacity in the Company's target markets, which could lead
to price erosion that would adversely affect the Company's operating results.

In fiscal 1997, 54% of the Company's revenues were derived from customers in
international markets. The Company has manufacturing facilities outside the U.S.
in Ireland, the Philippines and Taiwan. The Company also has supply agreements
that include "take or pay" covenants with suppliers located in Southeast Asia
("SEA") and as part of these arrangements, the Company has $26 million on
deposit with two of these suppliers. The Company also has a $21 million
investment in one of these suppliers. In addition, the Company's major partner
in its joint venture, WaferTech, is TSMC which is located in the SEA region. The
Company is therefore subject to the economic and political risks inherent in
international operations, including the risks associated with the ongoing
uncertainties in the economies in SEA. These risks include air transportation
disruptions, expropriation, currency controls and changes in currency exchange
rates, tax and tariff rates and freight rates. Although the Company engages in
certain hedging transactions to reduce its exposure to currency exchange rate
fluctuations, there can be no assurance that the Company's competitive position
will not be adversely affected by changes in the exchange rate of the U.S.
dollar against other currencies.

                                       6
<PAGE>   7


The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent claims and litigation
involving patent and other intellectual property rights. The Company has from
time to time received, and may in the future receive, claims from third parties
asserting that the Company's products or processes infringe their patents or
other intellectual property rights. In the event a third party makes a valid
intellectual property claim and a license is not available on commercially
reasonable terms, the Company's operating results could be materially and
adversely affected. Litigation may be necessary to enforce patents or other
intellectual property rights of the Company or to defend the Company against
claims of infringement, and such litigation can be costly and divert the
attention of key personnel. See Note 8 in the Notes to the Company's
Consolidated Financial Statements, for information concerning certain pending
litigation involving the Company. An adverse outcome in such litigation, may, in
certain cases, have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
financial position or on its consolidated results of operations or cash flows in
the period in which the litigation is resolved.

The Company already has installed Year 2000 compliant software in many of its
major systems. A task force is engaged in the ongoing effort to complete this
activity for the balance of the Company's systems. The cost of these efforts is
not expected to be material. The Company presently believes that the Year 2000
issue will not pose significant operational problems. However, Year 2000 issues
could have a significant impact on the Company's operations and its financial
results if modifications cannot be completed on a timely basis; unforeseen needs
or problems arise, or if the systems operated by our customers, vendors or
subcontractors are not Year 2000 compliant.

Because of these and other factors, past financial performance should not be
considered an indicator of future performance. Investors should not use
historical trends to anticipate future results and should be aware that the
trading price of the Company's common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations
in response to quarter-to-quarter variations in operating results, general
conditions in the semiconductor industry, changes in earnings estimates and
recommendations by analysts or other events.


                                       7
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.2
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1
                                                                    EXHIBIT 13.2

                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Years ended November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995
(thousands except per share amounts)                               1997             1996            1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C>              <C>              <C>        
REVENUE    Net sales.......................................     $1,243,494       $1,193,786       $ 941,546

COSTS AND  Cost of sales...................................        622,317          593,033         464,571
                                                                ----------       ----------       ---------
EXPENSES
           Gross margin....................................        621,177          600,753         476,975

           Operating expenses:
              Research and development.....................        196,148          177,772         134,265
              Selling, marketing, general
                and administrative.........................        191,613          195,842         184,943
                                                                ----------       ----------       ---------
                                                                   387,761          373,614         319,208
                                                                ----------       ----------       ---------

           Operating income................................        233,416          227,139         157,767

           Nonoperating (income) expenses:
              Interest expense.............................         12,507           11,289           4,201
              Interest income..............................        (16,178)         (16,535)         (8,103)
              Other........................................          1,208            1,645           2,234
                                                                ----------       ----------       ---------
                                                                    (2,463)          (3,601)         (1,668)
                                                                ----------       ----------       --------- 

EARNINGS   Income before income taxes......................        235,879          230,740         159,435

           Provision for income taxes:
              Payable currently............................         63,794           52,115          52,414
              Deferred (prepaid)...........................         (6,134)           6,724         (12,249)
                                                                ----------       ----------       ---------
                                                                    57,660           58,839          40,165
                                                                ----------       ----------       ---------

           Net income .....................................     $  178,219       $  171,901         119,270
                                                                ==========       ==========       =========
           Shares used to compute earnings per share.......        177,463          171,289         158,715
                                                                ==========       ==========       =========
           Earnings per share of common stock                   $     1.04       $     1.03       $     .75
                                                                ==========       ==========       =========

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>


                                       8
<PAGE>   2


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995
(thousands except share amounts)
ASSETS                                                                                1997           1996          1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                             <C>            <C>           <C>       
CURRENT             Cash and cash equivalents...............................    $  289,601     $  210,109    $   69,303
ASSETS              Short-term investments..................................        51,006         89,810        81,810
                    Accounts receivable less allowances of $40,007
                      ($14,785 in 1996 and $12,738 in 1995).................       255,886        234,434       173,028
                    Inventories.............................................       225,966        218,877       143,962
                    Deferred tax assets.....................................        54,761         44,879        39,650
                    Prepaid expenses and other current assets...............        18,209         14,728         9,966
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total current assets....................................       895,429        812,837       517,719
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------

PROPERTY,           Land and buildings......................................       145,952        140,776       139,718
PLANT AND           Machinery and equipment.................................       938,602        800,086       633,124
EQUIPMENT,          Office equipment........................................        58,714         46,307        41,260
AT COST             Leasehold improvements..................................        87,407         80,099        42,165
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                 1,230,675      1,067,268       856,267
                    Less accumulated depreciation and amortization..........       569,040        483,946       424,305
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Net property, plant and equipment.......................       661,635        583,322       431,962
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------

OTHER               Investments.............................................       131,468         68,382        13,980
ASSETS              Intangible assets, net..................................        14,768         16,846        17,230
                    Other assets............................................        60,553         26,885        12,458
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total other assets......................................       206,789        112,113        43,668
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                $1,763,853     $1,508,272    $  993,349
                                                                                ==========     ==========    ==========
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CURRENT             Short-term borrowings and current portion of
LIABILITIES           long-term debt........................................    $        -     $      178    $    2,299
                    Obligations under capital leases........................        11,733         10,960            60
                    Accounts payable........................................        97,654         90,177       100,217
                    Deferred income on shipments to domestic distributors...        37,013         38,400        27,588
                    Income taxes payable....................................        52,550         46,459        50,086
                    Accrued liabilities.....................................        75,444         76,649        65,839
                                                                                 ---------     ----------    ----------
                    Total current liabilities...............................       274,394        262,823       246,089
                                                                                 ---------     ----------    ----------

NONCURRENT          Long-term debt..........................................       310,000        310,000        80,000
LIABILITIES         Noncurrent obligations under capital leases.............        38,852         43,666             -
                    Deferred income taxes...................................        20,740         16,992         5,039
                    Other noncurrent liabilities............................        31,737         11,956         6,255
                                                                                 ---------     ----------    ----------
                    Total noncurrent liabilities............................       401,329        382,614        91,294
                                                                                 ---------     ----------    ----------

                    Commitments and Contingencies

STOCKHOLDERS'       Preferred stock, $1.00 par value, 500,000 shares
EQUITY                authorized, none outstanding..........................             -              -             -
                    Common stock, $.16 2/3 par value, 600,000,000
                      shares authorized, 161,941,094 shares issued
                      (158,745,219 in 1996 and 114,583,932 in 1995).........        26,991         26,458        19,098
                    Capital in excess of par value, net of deferred compen-
                      sation of  $6,343 ($4,679 in 1996 and $3,181 in 1995)        223,885        176,357       149,775
                    Retained earnings.......................................       831,584        653,365       481,464
                    Cumulative translation adjustment.......................         6,724          6,655         5,870
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                 1,089,184        862,835       656,207
                    Less shares in treasury, at cost, 35,094 in 1997
                      (none in 1996 and 51,876 in 1995).....................         1,054              -           241
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                    Total stockholders' equity..............................     1,088,130        862,835       655,966
                                                                                ----------     ----------    ----------
                                                                                $1,763,853     $1,508,272    $  993,349
                                                                                ==========     ==========    ==========
See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>

                                       9
<PAGE>   3


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Years ended November 1, 1997,                              
November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995        COMMON STOCK      CAPITAL IN                CUMULATIVE     TREASURY STOCK
                                           -----------------    EXCESS OF     RETAINED  TRANSLATION   -------------------
(thousands)                                SHARES     AMOUNT    PAR VALUE     EARNINGS   ADJUSTMENT   SHARES       AMOUNT
==========================================================================================================================
<S>        <C>                           <C>        <C>        <C>           <C>         <C>        <C>      <C>  
           Balance, October 29,
              1994                         75,252   $ 12,542    $141,159       $362,194    $6,020       -     $       -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1995                                                    119,270
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1995          stock plans and other,
              net of repurchases            1,137        190      10,462                                (35)        (241)
           Compensation recognized
              under Restricted Stock Plan                          1,672
           Tax benefit on exercise of non-
              qualified stock options and
              disqualifying dispositions
              under stock plans                                    2,848
           Three-for-two stock split       38,195      6,366      (6,366)                               (17)           -
           Currency translation
              adjustment                                                                     (150)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, October 28,
              1995                        114,584     19,098     149,775        481,464     5,870       (52)        (241)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1996                                                    171,901
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1996          stock plans and other,
              net of repurchases            2,228        371      15,474                                 52          241
           Exercise of warrants             2,250        375      11,721
           Compensation recognized
              under Restricted Stock Plan                          1,949
           Tax benefit on exercise of non-
              qualified stock options and
              disqualifying dispositions
              under stock plans                                    4,052
           Four-for-three stock split      39,683      6,614      (6,614)
           Currency translation
              adjustment                                                                     785
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance, November 2,
              1996                        158,745     26,458     176,357        653,365    6,655        -            -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACTIVITY   Net income - 1997                                                    178,219
IN FISCAL  Issuance of stock under
1997          stock plans and other,
              net of repurchases            3,196        533      19,446                                (35)      (1,054)
           Compensation recognized
              under Restricted Stock Plan                          2,309
           Tax benefit on exercise of non-
              qualified stock options and
              disqualifying dispositions
              under stock plans                                   25,773
           Currency translation
              adjustment                                                                     69
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Balance , November 1,
              1997                        161,941   $ 26,991    $223,885       $831,584   $6,724        (35)   $  (1,054)
==========================================================================================================================
See accompanying notes.

</TABLE>
                                       10
<PAGE>   4


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Years ended November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995
(thousands)                                                                      1997              1996            1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>               <C>             <C>       
OPERATIONS     Cash flows from operations:
                  Net income ............................................  $  178,219        $  171,901      $  119,270
                  Adjustments to reconcile net income
                    to net cash provided by operations:
                      Depreciation and amortization......................     103,554            83,809          64,098
                      Deferred income taxes..............................      (6,134)            6,565         (12,360)
                      Other noncash (income) expenses....................        (136)             (638)            151
                      Increase in accounts receivable....................     (25,129)          (67,744)        (12,747)
                      Increase in inventories............................      (7,739)          (76,748)        (14,402)
                      Increase in prepaid expenses and other
                         current assets..................................      (3,605)           (4,782)         (4,959)
                      Increase in accounts payable,
                         deferred income and accrued liabilities.........       4,828            24,728          45,816
                      Increase in income taxes payable...................      32,916               425          23,784
                      Increase in other liabilities......................      20,453             6,201           1,599
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------
                  Total adjustments......................................     119,008           (28,184)         90,980
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------

               Net cash provided by operations...........................     297,227           143,717         210,250
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------

INVESTMENTS    Cash flows from investments:
                  Purchase of short-term investments available for sale..    (153,269)         (262,648)       (166,225)
                  Maturities of short-term investments available for sale     192,073           254,648         162,067
                  Additions to property, plant and equipment, net........    (179,374)         (234,099)       (212,671)
                  Long-term investments..................................     (63,086)          (54,402)              -
                  Increase in other assets...............................     (33,650)           (8,971)        (16,878)
                  Purchase of short-term investments held to maturity....           -                 -          (7,200)
                  Maturities of short-term investments held to maturity..           -                 -           2,200
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------
               Net cash used for investments.............................    (237,306)         (305,472)       (238,707)
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------

FINANCING      Cash flows from financing activities:
ACTIVITIES        Proceeds from employee stock plans.....................      19,283            14,028          10,126
                  Payments on capital lease obligations..................     (11,164)           (7,227)           (237)
                  Proceeds from equipment financing......................       7,123            61,793               -
                  Net decrease in variable rate borrowings...............        (109)           (3,580)           (787)
                  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt...............           -           224,385               -
                  Proceeds from warrants exercised.......................           -            12,096               -
                  Payments on long-term debt.............................           -                 -         (20,000)
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------
               Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities......      15,133           301,495         (10,898)
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------
               Effect of exchange rate changes on cash...................       4,438             1,066            (455)
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------
               Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents......      79,492           140,806         (39,810)
               Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year............     210,109            69,303         109,113
                                                                           ----------        ----------      ----------
               Cash and cash equivalents at end of year..................  $  289,601        $  210,109      $   69,303
                                                                           ==========        ==========      ==========
SUPPLE-        Cash paid during the year for:
MENTAL            Income taxes...........................................  $   27,621        $   52,541      $   30,511
                                                                           ==========        ==========      ==========
INFORMATION       Interest...............................................  $   16,158        $   10,171      $    6,685
                                                                           ==========        ==========      ==========

See accompanying notes.
</TABLE>

                                       11

<PAGE>   5





                      [THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]


<PAGE>   6






                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       YEARS ENDED NOVEMBER 1, 1997, NOVEMBER 2, 1996 AND OCTOBER 28, 1995
           (ALL TABULAR AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)


1.  DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

Analog Devices, Inc. ("Analog" or the "Company") designs, manufactures and
markets a broad line of high-performance linear, mixed-signal and digital
integrated circuits that address a wide range of real-world signal processing
applications. The Company's two principal product groups are general-purpose,
standard-function linear and mixed-signal ICs and system-level ICs. The latter
group includes general-purpose digital signal processing ICs and
application-specific devices that typically incorporate analog and mixed-signal
circuitry and a DSP core. Analog's third product group consists of devices
manufactured using assembled product technology.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

a.  PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
all of its wholly owned subsidiaries. Upon consolidation, all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated. The Company's fiscal year
ends on the Saturday closest to the last day in October. Fiscal years 1997 and
1995 were each 52 week years, while 1996 was a 53 week year.

Certain amounts reported in previous years have been reclassified to conform to
the 1997 presentation, such reclassifications were immaterial.

b.  CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with insignificant
interest rate risk and maturities of three months or less at the time of
acquisition. Investments with maturities between three and twelve months at time
of acquisition are considered short-term investments. Cash, cash equivalents and
short-term investments consist primarily of commercial paper, but also include
certificates of deposit and bankers acceptances. Long-term investments consist
of equity securities and bank money market funds as well as time deposits which
the Company intends to renew at each maturity date.

The Company classifies its investments in debt and equity securities as
"held-to-maturity," "available-for-sale," and "trading" at the time of purchase
and for such designation to be reevaluated as of each balance sheet date.
Held-to-maturity securities, which are carried at amortized cost, include only
those securities the Company has the positive intent and ability to hold to
maturity. Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with
unrealized gains and losses, net of related tax, if any, reported as a separate
component of stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses, declines in value
judged to be other than temporary, as well as interest, dividends and capital
gains distributions on all securities are included in earnings.

                                       13
<PAGE>   7


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

While it is the intent of management to hold securities to maturity, unforeseen
events, while not generally expected, could cause the Company to liquidate
certain securities prior to maturity. Accordingly, those securities which could
readily be sold back to the seller are classified as available-for-sale.
Securities, such as bank time deposits, which by their nature are typically held
to maturity are classified as such. The following is a summary of
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities at November 1, 1997, November
2, 1996 and October 28, 1995:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                           AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE                       HELD-TO-MATURITY
                                       --------------------------------------------------------     ----------------
                                                        GROSS           GROSS
                                                   UNREALIZED      UNREALIZED         ESTIMATED
1997                                   COST             GAINS          LOSSES        FAIR VALUE             COST
=======================================================================================================================
<S>                                <C>                 <C>              <C>           <C>                <C>    
Cash equivalents:
   Commercial paper                $249,053            $    -           $   -         $ 249,053          $     -
   Euro time deposits                     -                 -               -                 -           16,810
Short-term investments:
   Commercial paper                  38,085                 -               -            38,085                -
   Certificates of deposit           10,000                 -               -            10,000                -
   Bankers' acceptances               2,921                 -               -             2,921                -
Long-term investments:
   Equity securities                  3,433               165             200             3,398                -
   Euro time deposits                     -                 -               -                 -            1,556
   Bank money market fund             9,250                 -               -             9,250                -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              $312,742            $  165           $ 200          $312,707          $18,366
=======================================================================================================================

1996
=======================================================================================================================
Cash equivalents:
   Commercial paper                $ 83,713            $    -           $   -         $  83,713          $     -
   Euro time deposits                     -                 -               -                 -           94,656
   Certificates of deposit            8,000                 -               -             8,000                -
Short-term investments:
   Commercial paper                  89,810                 -               -            89,810                -
Long-term investments:
   Equity securities                  4,186               386               2             4,570                -
   Euro time deposits                     -                 -               -                 -              836
   Bank money market fund                19                 -               -                19                -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              $185,728            $  386           $   2         $ 186,112          $95,492
=======================================================================================================================

1995
=======================================================================================================================
Cash equivalents:
   Commercial paper                $ 27,727            $    -           $   -         $  27,727          $     -
   Euro time deposits                     -                 -               -                 -           31,300
Short-term investments:
   Commercial paper                  73,874                 -               -            73,874                -
   Bankers' acceptances               2,936                 -               -             2,936                -
   Euro time deposits                     -                 -               -                 -            5,000
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                              $104,537            $    -           $   -         $ 104,537          $36,300
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Cash equivalents and short-term investments classified as available-for-sale and
held-to-maturity at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995 have
contractual maturities of six months or less at time of acquisition. Because of
the short term to maturity, and hence relative price insensitivity to changes in
market interest rates, amortized cost approximates fair value for all of these
securities. As such, no unrealized gains or losses were recorded during each of
these years. Long-term bank time deposits, although renewed on a continual
basis, typically have original maturities of two weeks. As such, they are price
insensitive to changes in market interest rates and amortized cost therefore
approximates fair value. Bank money market funds, which have been categorized as
long-term investments, by their nature maintain a constant par value of $1 per
share. Amortized cost for these securities, therefore, approximates fair value.

                                       14
<PAGE>   8


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The fair value of long-term equity securities was determined based on published
market quotes at October 31, 1997 and November 1, 1996. Realized gains and
losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities were not material in
fiscal 1997, fiscal 1996 and fiscal 1995.

The fair value of trading securities at November 1, 1997 was $9 million and was
determined based on published market quotes at October 31, 1997. Gross realized
gains from the sale of trading securities for the year ended November 1, 1997
were not material. There were no gross realized losses from the sale of trading
securities for the year ended November 1, 1997.

c.  INVENTORIES

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out method) or
market. Inventories at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995
were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                         1997           1996           1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>            <C>            <C>       
         Raw materials             $   31,526     $   31,039     $   22,327
         Work in process              128,187        115,799         77,526
         Finished goods                66,253         72,039         44,109
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total inventories         $  225,966     $  218,877     $  143,962
==============================================================================
</TABLE>
A director of a raw material supplier was also a director of the Company through
January 1995. Total purchases from this supplier approximated $11,038,000
through January 1995. The Company believes that the terms of these purchases
were comparable to those available from other suppliers.

d.  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less allowances for
depreciation and amortization. The straight-line method of depreciation is used
for all classes of assets for financial statement purposes; both straight-line
and accelerated methods are used for income tax purposes. Capitalized leases and
leasehold improvements are amortized based upon the lesser of the term of the
lease or the useful life of the asset. Depreciation and amortization are based
on the following useful lives:

         Buildings & Building Equipment                 Up to 25 years
         Machinery & Equipment                              3-10 years
         Office Equipment                                    3-8 years

Total depreciation and amortization of property, plant and equipment was
$101,432,000, $81,740,000 and $62,066,000 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.


                                       15

<PAGE>   9


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

e.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

Intangible assets at November 1, 1997 consist of goodwill, patents and other
intangibles. Goodwill is being amortized on a straight-line basis over a
fifteen-year period. Patents and other intangibles are being amortized on a
straight-line basis over their estimated economic lives which range from ten to
fifteen years. Amortization expense for all intangible assets was $2,122,000,
$2,069,000 and $2,032,000 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Accumulated
amortization for all intangible assets was $14,859,000, $12,737,000 and
$10,668,000 at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995,
respectively. On a periodic basis, the Company estimates the future undiscounted
cash flows of the businesses to which the intangible assets relate in order to
ensure that the carrying value of such intangible assets has not been impaired.

f.  GRANT ACCOUNTING

The Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland has received various
grants from the Industrial Development Authority of the Republic of Ireland.
These grants include capital, employment, and research and development grants.
Capital grants for the acquisition of property and equipment are netted against
the related capital expenditures and amortized as a credit to depreciation
expense over the useful life of the related asset. Employment grants, which
relate to employee hiring and training, and research and development grants are
recognized in earnings in the period in which the related expenditures are
incurred by the Company.

g.  TRANSLATION OF FOREIGN CURRENCIES

The functional currency for the Company's foreign sales operations is the
applicable local currency. Gains and losses resulting from translation of these
foreign currencies into U.S. dollars are accumulated in a separate component of
stockholders' equity. Transaction gains and losses are included in income
currently, including those at the Company's principal foreign manufacturing
operations where the functional currency is the U.S. dollar. Net foreign
currency transaction gains or losses included in other expenses, net, were not
material in fiscal 1997, 1996 and 1995.

h.  FOREIGN CURRENCY INSTRUMENTS AND INTEREST RATE AGREEMENTS

The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency
option contracts and currency swap agreements to offset certain operational and
balance sheet exposures from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Such
exposures result from the portion of the Company's operations, assets and
liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar,
primarily Japanese yen and European currencies. These foreign exchange contract,
option and swap transactions are entered into to support product sales,
purchases and financing transactions made in the normal course of business, and
accordingly, are not speculative in nature.

Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to manage the risk associated
with currency fluctuations on certain firm sales and purchase commitments
denominated in foreign currencies and certain non-U.S. dollar denominated asset
and liability positions. The Company's forward foreign exchange contracts are
primarily denominated in Japanese yen and certain European currencies and are
for periods consistent with the terms of the underlying transactions, generally
one year or less. The forward foreign exchange contracts that relate to firm,
foreign currency sales and purchase commitments are designated and effective as
hedges of firm, identifiable foreign currency commitments, and accordingly, the
gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate movements
on these contracts are not recognized in operations until the underlying hedged
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such gains and losses are
recorded in operations as an adjustment to the carrying amount of the underlying
transactions in the period in which these transactions are recognized.
Unrealized gains and losses resulting from the impact of currency exchange rate
movements on forward foreign exchange contracts designated to offset certain
non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are recognized as other
income or expense in the period in which the exchange rates change and offset
the foreign currency gains and losses on the underlying exposures being hedged.
The contract amounts of forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding were $163
million, $147 million and $182 million at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and
October 28, 1995, respectively.

                                       16
<PAGE>   10


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The Company also may periodically enter into foreign currency option contracts
to offset certain probable anticipated, but not firmly committed, foreign
currency transactions related to the sale of product during the ensuing nine
months. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign
currencies, the decline in value of future currency cash flows is partially
offset by the gains in value of the purchased currency options designated as
hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the increase in value of future
foreign currency cash flows is reduced only by the premium paid to acquire the
options. The Company's foreign currency option contracts are primarily
denominated in Japanese yen and generally have maturities which do not exceed
six months. These foreign currency option contracts are designated and effective
as hedges of anticipated foreign currency sales transactions, and accordingly,
the premium cost and any realized gains associated with these contracts are
deferred and included in the consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and
accrued liabilities, respectively, until such time as the underlying sales
transactions are recognized. Upon recognition, such premium costs and any
realized gains are recorded in sales as a component of the underlying sales
transactions being hedged. The contract amounts of foreign currency option
contracts outstanding were $29 million, $28 million and $27 million at November
1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995, respectively. Deferred gains or
losses attributable to foreign currency option contracts were not material at
November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995.

The Company uses currency swap agreements to hedge the value of its net
investment in certain of its foreign subsidiaries. Realized and unrealized gains
and losses on such agreements related to the net foreign investment being hedged
are recognized in the cumulative translation adjustment component of
stockholders' equity, with the related amounts due to or from counterparties
included in accrued liabilities or other current assets. The contract amount of
currency swap agreements outstanding, which were principally denominated in
Japanese yen, was $10.0 million at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and
October 28, 1995. The currency swap agreement outstanding at November 1, 1997
has a remaining maturity of 2.5 years and is expected to remain in effect until
expiration.

The Company enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its
exposure to interest rate movements by effectively converting a portion of its
debt and certain financing arrangements from fixed to variable rates. Maturity
dates of interest rate swap and cap agreements generally match those of the
underlying debt or financing arrangements. These agreements, which have
maturities of up to ten years involve the exchange of fixed rate payments for
variable rate payments without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
Variable rates are based on six-month U.S. dollar LIBOR and reset on a
semiannual basis. The differential between fixed and variable rates to be paid
or received is accrued as interest rates change in accordance with the
agreements and recognized over the life of the agreements as an adjustment to
interest expense. The notional principal amounts of interest rate swap and cap
agreements outstanding were approximately $50 million, at November 1, 1997,
November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995.

The cash requirements of the above-described financial instruments approximate
their fair value. Cash flows associated with these financial instruments are
classified consistent with the cash flows from the transactions being hedged.

Derivative financial instruments involve, to a varying degree, elements of
market and credit risk not recognized in the consolidated financial statements.
The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency
exchange rate or interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk
of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. The
counterparties to the agreements relating to the Company's foreign exchange and
interest rate instruments consist of a number of major international financial
institutions with high credit ratings. The Company does not believe that there
is significant risk of nonperformance by these counterparties because the
Company continually monitors the credit ratings of such counterparties, and
limits the financial exposure and the amount of agreements entered into with any
one financial institution. While the contract or notional amounts of derivative
financial instruments provide one measure of the volume of these transactions,
they do not represent the amount of the Company's exposure to credit risk. The
amounts potentially subject to credit risk (arising from the possible inability
of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts) are generally limited to
the amounts, if any, by which the counterparties' obligations under the
contracts exceed the obligations of the Company to the counterparties.

                                       17
<PAGE>   11


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

i.  FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following estimated fair value amounts have been determined by the Company
using available market information and appropriate valuation methodologies.
However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to
develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein
are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company could realize in
a current market exchange.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                        NOVEMBER 1, 1997             NOVEMBER 2, 1996            OCTOBER 28, 1995
                                        ----------------             ----------------            ----------------
                                     CARRYING          FAIR       CARRYING         FAIR        CARRYING          FAIR
                                       AMOUNT         VALUE         AMOUNT        VALUE          AMOUNT         VALUE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>           <C>            <C>          <C>              <C>           <C>    
Assets:
     Cash and cash equivalents       $289,601      $289,601       $210,109     $210,109         $69,303       $69,303
     Short-term investments            51,006        51,006         89,810       89,810          81,810        81,810
     Long-term investments             23,168        23,168          5,425        5,425               -             -

Liabilities:
     Short-term borrowings                  -             -           (178)        (178)         (2,299)       (2,299)
     Long-term debt, including
       current portion               (310,000)     (427,640)      (310,000)    (369,513)        (80,000)      (80,130)

Foreign Currency Instruments and
   Interest Rate Agreements:
     Interest rate swap
       and cap agreements                 (31)         (413)            18         (491)            (30)         (175)
     Forward foreign currency
       exchange contracts               2,260          (400)         2,672        3,585           7,798         9,089
     Foreign currency option
       contracts                          267           187            130          240             388         1,645
     Currency swap agreements           1,632         1,363          1,131          922             413           485
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The following methods and assumptions were used by the Company in estimating its
fair value disclosures for financial instruments:

Cash, cash equivalents and investments-The carrying amounts of these items are a
reasonable estimate of their fair value due to the short term to maturity and
readily available market for these types of investments.

Short-term borrowings-The carrying amounts of these variable-rate borrowings
approximate fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.

Long-term debt-The fair value of long-term debt is estimated based on current
interest rates available to the Company for debt instruments with similar terms,
degree of risk and remaining maturities.

Interest rate swap and cap agreements-The fair value of interest rate swap and
cap agreements are obtained from dealer quotes. These values represent the
estimated amount the Company would receive or pay to terminate the agreements
taking into consideration current interest rates.

Forward foreign currency exchange contracts-The estimated fair value of forward
foreign currency exchange contracts is based on the estimated amount at which
they could be settled based on forward market exchange rates.

Foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements-The fair values
of foreign currency option contracts and currency swap agreements are obtained
from dealer quotes. These values represent the estimated net amount the Company
would receive or pay to terminate the agreements.


                                       18
<PAGE>   12


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

j.  USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingencies at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Such estimates relate to
the useful lives of fixed assets, allowances for doubtful accounts and customer
returns, inventory reserves, potential reserves relating to litigation matters,
accrued liabilities, and other reserves. Actual results could differ from those
estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements.

k.  CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist principally of investments and trade accounts receivable.

The Company maintains cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments with
high credit quality financial institutions and monitors the amount of credit
exposure to any one financial institution.

The Company sells its products to distributors and original equipment
manufacturers involved in a variety of industries including industrial
automation, instrumentation, military/aerospace, and to an increasing degree,
communications, computers and peripherals, and high-performance consumer
electronics. The Company has adopted credit policies and standards to
accommodate growth in these markets. The Company performs continuing credit
evaluations of its customers' financial condition and although the Company
generally does not require collateral, letters of credit may be required from
its customers in certain circumstances. Reserves are provided for estimated
amounts of accounts receivable which may not be collected.

l.  CONCENTRATION OF OTHER RISKS

The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change,
competitive pricing pressures, and cyclical market patterns. The Company's
financial results are affected by a wide variety of factors, including general
economic conditions worldwide, economic conditions specific to the semiconductor
industry, the timely implementation of new manufacturing technologies, the
ability to safeguard patents and intellectual property in a rapidly evolving
market, and reliance on assembly and test subcontractors, third-party wafer
fabricators and independent distributors. As a result, the Company may
experience significant period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results
due to the factors mentioned above or other factors.

m.  REVENUE RECOGNITION

Revenue from product sales to end users is recognized upon shipment. A portion
of the Company's sales are made to domestic distributors under agreements
allowing for price protection and certain rights of return. Under these domestic
distributor agreements where pricing concessions and future returns cannot be
reasonably estimated, the Company defers recognition of such sales and related
gross margin until the merchandise is sold by the distributors. In fiscal 1997,
the Company entered into other agreements with some domestic distributors
covering the sale of selected products. Under these new agreements, price
concessions and future returns are restricted and can be reasonably estimated.
Accordingly, the Company recognizes revenue upon shipment of products covered by
these agreements and provides specific reserves for possible returns and
allowances. For sales to international distributors, the Company recognizes the
sale upon shipment, but provides specific reserves for possible returns and
allowances.

n.  INCOME TAXES

Income taxes have been provided in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," under which
deferred tax liabilities and assets at the end of each period are determined
based on the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax bases using the tax rate expected to be in effect when the
taxes are actually paid or recovered. The measurement of deferred tax assets is
reduced, if necessary, by a valuation allowance.

                                       19
<PAGE>   13


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

o.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

The Company grants stock options for a fixed number of shares to employees with
an exercise price equal to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
The Company accounts for stock option grants in accordance with APB Opinion No.
25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" and accordingly, recognizes no
compensation expense for the stock option grants. In fiscal 1997, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation" ("FAS 123"). FAS 123 requires the recognition of, or
disclosure of, compensation expense for grants of stock options or other equity
instruments issued to employees based on their fair value at the date of grant.
As permitted by FAS 123, the Company elected the disclosure requirements instead
of recognition of compensation expense and therefore will continue to apply
existing accounting rules.

p.  EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK

The Company computes its earnings per share in accordance with the provisions of
the Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 15 ("APB 15"), "Earnings Per Share."
Primary earnings per common share are computed based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for incremental
shares assumed issued (including incremental shares for 3 1/2% convertible debt)
for dilutive common stock equivalents. Fully diluted earnings per share do not
differ materially from primary earnings per share. In February 1997, the
Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No. 128, "Earnings per
Share," ("FAS 128") which supersedes APB 15 and is required to be adopted in
financial statements issued after December 31, 1997. For the first quarter of
fiscal 1998, the Company will be required to change the method currently used to
compute earnings per share and to restate all prior periods. Under the new
requirements, primary and fully diluted earnings per share will be replaced by
basic and diluted earnings per share. Basic earnings per share is computed based
only on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the
period and the dilutive effect of stock options is excluded. Diluted earnings
per share is computed essentially in the same manner as fully diluted earnings
per share with some exceptions. The primary exception affecting the Company is
that the dilutive effect of stock options is always based on the average market
price of the stock during the period, not the higher of the average and period
end market price as required under APB 15.

If the Company computed its earnings per share based on FAS 128, the pro forma
amounts for basic and diluted earnings per share would have been as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      1997            1996           1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>             <C>            <C>  
            Basic Earnings Per Share                 $1.13           $1.12          $0.79
            Diluted Earnings Per Share               $1.04           $1.03          $0.75
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



q.  NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

The Company has not yet adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income" and Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information" which will require adoption in fiscal 1999. The Company is in the
process of determining the effect of adoption of these statements on its
consolidated financial statements and related disclosures.


                                       20

<PAGE>   14


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

3.  INDUSTRY AND GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION

INDUSTRY

The Company operates predominantly in one industry segment: the design,
manufacture and marketing of a broad line of high-performance linear,
mixed-signal and digital integrated circuits that address a wide range of
real-world signal processing applications.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

The Company operates in three major geographic areas. Information on the
Company's geographic operations is set forth in the table below. The predominant
countries comprising European operations are England, France, Germany and
Ireland. The predominant country comprising Asian operations is Japan. For
segment reporting purposes, sales generated by North American operations in the
table include export sales of $147,601,000, $159,862,000 and $97,446,000 in
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Transfers between geographic areas are
negotiated based on market comparables. Operating income reflects the allocation
of corporate expenses of $22,049,000, $24,093,000 and $23,190,000 in 1997, 1996
and 1995, respectively, to the appropriate geographic area based upon their
beneficial and causal relationship to each area. Corporate identifiable assets
consist of cash equivalents, short-term investments and intangible assets.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
GEOGRAPHIC SEGMENT INFORMATION                                              1997               1996               1995
=======================================================================================================================
<S>              <C>                                                <C>                <C>                <C>        
SALES             North America, including export.............       $   711,252        $   658,627        $   509,625
                  Europe......................................           359,333            364,308            264,401
                  Asia........................................           172,909            170,851            167,520
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total sales...............................       $ 1,243,494        $ 1,193,786        $   941,546
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========

TRANSFERS         North America, including export.............       $   334,783        $   348,574        $   286,021
BETWEEN           Europe......................................           240,592            189,911            141,925
AREAS             Asia........................................            48,131             39,749             30,180
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total transfers between areas.............       $   623,506        $   578,234        $   458,126
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========

OPERATING         North America, including export.............       $   103,173        $   121,877        $    92,640
INCOME            Europe......................................           125,118            103,158             63,627
                  Asia........................................             5,125              2,104              1,500
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total operating income....................       $   233,416        $   227,139        $   157,767
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========

IDENTIFIABLE      North America...............................       $   891,345        $   734,637        $   437,532
ASSETS            Europe......................................           398,033            364,084            290,008
                  Asia........................................           142,838            116,527            107,742
                  Corporate...................................           331,637            293,024            158,067
                                                                     -----------        -----------        -----------
                    Total assets..............................       $ 1,763,853        $ 1,508,272        $   993,349
                                                                     ===========        ===========        ===========
</TABLE>

                                       21
<PAGE>   15


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4.   INVESTMENTS

Investments at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995 were as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                   1997                     1996                     1995
=======================================================================================================================
<S>                                          <C>                      <C>                       <C>       
                    WaferTech, LLC           $   86,715               $   42,073                $        -
                    CSM                          20,784                   20,784                    13,980
                    Other                        23,969                    5,525                         -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             $  131,468               $   68,382                $   13,980
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

In June 1996, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd., two other companies and several
individual investors for the construction and operation of a semiconductor
fabrication facility in Camas, Washington. The Company received an 18% equity
ownership in the joint venture, known as WaferTech, in return for a $140 million
investment. The investment was made in three installments. The first installment
of $42 million was paid in fiscal 1996. A second installment of $42 million was
paid in fiscal 1997 and the remaining installment of $56 million was paid in
fiscal 1998 on November 3, 1997. In addition, the Company has an obligation to
guarantee its pro rata share of debt incurred by WaferTech, up to a maximum for
the Company of $45 million. The Company is applying the equity basis of
accounting to this investment in WaferTech based on the Company's ability to
exercise significant influence on the operating and financial policies of the
joint venture. The operating results of this joint venture to date have not been
material.

The Company has an equity investment in Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing
Pte., Ltd. in Singapore of approximately $21 million which represents a less
than 5% ownership interest. The Company accounts for this investment under the
cost method and therefore changes in the value of the investment are not
recognized unless an impairment in the value of the investment is deemed by
management to be "other than temporary."

Other investments consist primarily of long-term investments in debt and equity
securities.

5.   ACCRUED LIABILITIES

Accrued liabilities at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995
consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       1997                  1996                  1995
=======================================================================================================================
<S>                                                               <C>                   <C>                   <C>      
                  Accrued compensation
                    and benefits                                  $  49,089             $  48,848             $  47,785
                  Other                                              26,355                27,801                18,054
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Total accrued liabilities                       $  75,444             $  76,649             $  65,839
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       22
<PAGE>   16


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

6.   DEBT AND CREDIT FACILITIES

3 1/2% NOTES

On December 18, 1995, the Company completed a public offering of $230,000,000 of
five-year 3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated Notes due December 1, 2000 with
semiannual interest payments due on June 1 and December 1. The Notes are
convertible, at the option of the holder, into the Company's common stock at any
time, unless previously redeemed by the Company, at a conversion price of
$20.938 per share, subject to adjustment in certain events.

6 5/8% NOTES

On March 11, 1993, the Company completed a public offering of $80 million of
seven-year 6 5/8% Notes due March 1, 2000 with semiannual interest payments due
on March 1 and September 1. Simultaneous with the sale of the Notes, the Company
entered into an interest rate swap and cap agreement for the term of the Notes
having a notional principal amount of $40 million whereby the effective net
interest rate on $40 million of the Notes will be the six-month LIBOR rate (up
to a maximum of 7%) plus 1.4%. For the year ended November 1, 1997, the net
effective interest rate on $40 million of the Notes was 7.5% after giving effect
to the interest rate swap agreement.

REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LINES OF CREDIT

The Company has a revolving credit agreement with several banks which commits
them to lend up to $60,000,000. The credit agreement requires the Company to
maintain stated minimum net worth and current ratio levels, plus a stated
maximum ratio of total liabilities to net worth. In addition, the credit
agreement restricts the aggregate of all cash dividend payments declared or made
subsequent to November 2, 1996 to an amount not exceeding $150,000,000 plus 50%
of the consolidated net income of the Company for the period from November 3,
1996 through the end of the Company's then most recent fiscal quarter. At
November 1, 1997 this amount was equal to $239,110,000. At November 1, 1997, the
Company was in compliance with all covenants under the credit agreement.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

Long-term debt at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995 consisted of the following:
                                                          1997                  1996                  1995
==================================================================================================================
<S>                                                 <C>                   <C>                   <C>       
           3 1/2% Convertible Subordinated
              Notes due 2000                        $  230,000            $  230,000            $        -
           6 5/8% Notes due 2000                        80,000                80,000                80,000
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Long-term debt                           $  310,000            $  310,000            $   80,000
==================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Aggregate principal payments on long-term debt and short-term borrowings for the
following fiscal years are: 2000-$80 million; and 2001-$230 million.

                                       23
<PAGE>   17


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

7.  LEASE COMMITMENTS

The Company leases certain of its facilities and equipment under various
operating and capital leases which expire at various dates through 2010. The
lease agreements frequently include renewal and purchase provisions and require
the Company to pay taxes, insurance and maintenance costs.

Total rental expense under operating leases was $13,058,000, $11,573,000 and
$11,243,000 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

The following is a schedule of future minimum lease payments under capital
leases and rental payments required under long-term operating leases at November
1, 1997:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              OPERATING                                         CAPITAL
FISCAL YEARS                                                     LEASES                                          LEASES
=======================================================================================================================
<C>                                                           <C>                                             <C>      
1998                                                          $  11,229                                       $  13,416
1999                                                             10,608                                          13,398
2000                                                              8,369                                          13,361
2001                                                              4,997                                           6,652
2002                                                              2,617                                           4,745
Later Years                                                       3,883                                           3,700
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                         $  41,703                                          55,272
                                                              =========
Less amount representing interest                                                                                (4,687)
                                                                                                              ---------
Present value of minimum lease payments                                                                       $  50,585
                                                                                                              =========
</TABLE>


Net property, plant and equipment includes the following for capital leases:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   1997                    1996                    1995
=======================================================================================================================
<S>                                                           <C>                     <C>                     <C>      
Land and buildings                                            $       -               $       -               $   1,828
Machinery and equipment                                          68,912                  61,793                     829
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                 68,912                  61,793                   2,657
Less accumulated amortization                                   (13,859)                 (4,198)                 (2,639)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net capital leases                                            $  55,053               $  57,595               $      18
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>


8.   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LITIGATION

The Company was a defendant in two lawsuits brought in Texas by Texas
Instruments, Inc. ("TI"), alleging patent infringement, including patent
infringement arising from certain plastic encapsulation processes, and seeking
an injunction and unspecified damages against the Company. The alleged
infringement of one of these patents was also the subject matter of a proceeding
brought by TI against the Company before the International Trade Commission
("ITC"). On January 10, 1994, the ITC brought an enforcement proceeding against
the Company alleging that the Company had violated the ITC's cease and desist
order of February 1992 (as modified in July 1993), which prohibited the
Company's importation of certain plastic encapsulated circuits, and seeking
substantial penalties against the Company for these alleged violations. In
addition, in June 1992, the Company commenced a lawsuit against TI in
Massachusetts alleging certain TI digital signal processors infringed one of the
Company's patents. Effective April 1, 1995, the Company and TI settled both
Texas lawsuits and the Massachusetts lawsuit principally by means of a
royalty-free cross license of certain of the Company's and TI's patents.

                                       24
<PAGE>   18


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

On April 25, 1995, the Company filed with the ITC a motion to terminate the ITC
enforcement proceeding on the grounds that further action by the ITC was
unnecessary in light of the Company's settlement with TI. On May 8, 1995, an
Administrative Law Judge issued a recommended determination to the ITC to grant
the Company's motion to terminate the ITC proceeding. The investigative office
of the ITC opposed the motion, claiming that, notwithstanding the Company's
settlement with TI, the Company's alleged violation of the ITC's cease and
desist order warranted the imposition of substantial penalties. On September 11,
1996, the ITC adopted the determination of the Administrative Law Judge to
terminate the enforcement proceeding and referred to the Department of Justice
by letter certain allegations that the Company made false representations in
reports filed with the ITC. The Company advised the Department of Justice that
it has consistently and vigorously denied such allegations during the entire
course of the proceedings before the ITC and the Department of Justice informed
the Company that its statement would be considered in connection with any action
it may take on the matter. The Company is aware of no further activity by the
Department of Justice, and is unable to determine whether further activity will
occur regarding the foregoing matter.

In addition, from time to time as a normal incidence of the nature of the
Company's business, various claims, charges and litigation are asserted or
commenced against the Company arising from or related to contractual matters,
patents, trademarks, personal injury, environmental matters and product
liability. Such litigation includes patent infringement actions brought against
the Company by Sextant Avionique, S.A. in France and the United States and
Commissariat A. L'energie Atomique C.E.A. in France, claiming that the Company's
accelerometer infringes certain patents. In the French proceeding commenced by
Sextant Avionique, S.A., the French court has found that the Company has
infringed Sextant's French patents, and therefore, unless the decision is
reversed, the Company will be unable to manufacture or sell any infringing
accelerometers in France. The Company does not believe that this decision will
have any material adverse effect on its consolidated financial position or
consolidated results of operations. As to other pending litigation, the Company
can give no assurance that it will prevail; however, the Company does not
believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. However,
an adverse resolution could have an adverse effect on the Company's consolidated
results of operations in the quarter in which these matters are resolved.

IRISH GRANTS

The Company's manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland has received operating
and capital grants from Ireland's Industrial Development Authority. A liability
to repay up to $18 million of the grants received by the Company would arise in
the unlikely event the Company should discontinue its Irish operations prior to
the commitment periods noted in the grant agreements which expire at various
dates through 2006.

WAFER SUPPLY AGREEMENTS

In fiscal 1997, in accordance with a previous agreement, the Company paid $12
million to Chartered Semiconductor Manufacturing Pte., Ltd. for a total deposit
of $20 million. This deposit is classified in the balance sheet line item "Other
assets." Under the terms of this agreement, the deposit will guarantee access to
certain quantities of sub-micron wafers through fiscal 2000. If the Company does
not purchase the minimum quantities under the agreement, the deposit will be
forfeited for the value of the wafer shortfall up to the total amount of $20
million. At the end of the agreement term, the Company's deposit will be
returned, net of any forfeitures.

9.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

COMMON STOCK

In March 1997, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Company's Articles
of Organization to increase the authorized number of shares of common stock from
450,000,000 to 600,000,000.


                                       25

<PAGE>   19



                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

STOCK PLANS

The 1988 Stock Option Plan provides for the issuance of nonstatutory and
incentive stock options to purchase up to 29,900,000 shares of common stock.
Under this plan, options may be granted to selected employees of the Company and
its subsidiaries at a price not less than 100% of the fair market value of the
underlying stock on the date of grant. The Company's 1980 Stock Option Plan was
terminated upon adoption of the 1988 Stock Option Plan; however, options to
purchase common stock remain outstanding under that plan.

While the Company may grant options to employees which become exercisable at
different times or within different periods, the Company has generally granted
options to employees which are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual
installments of 33 1/3% each on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the
date of grant.

Under the 1994 Director Option Plan, each nonemployee director is granted
annually for four years a nonstatutory option to purchase 10,500 shares of
common stock at an exercise price equal to the fair market value on the date of
grant. A total of 400,000 shares of common stock may be issued under this plan.
These options are exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33
1/3% each on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant. The
Company also has options outstanding under the 1992 Director Option Plan and the
1989 Director Stock Option Plan. Options granted under these plans are
exercisable on a cumulative basis in annual installments of 33 1/3% each on the
third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.

Information with respect to activity under the stock option plans is set forth
below:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         OPTIONS OUTSTANDING
                                                            SHARES                 ---------------------------------
                                                         AVAILABLE                                  WEIGHTED AVERAGE
STOCK OPTION ACTIVITY                                    FOR GRANT                  NUMBER           PRICE PER SHARE
=======================================================================================================================
<S>              <C> <C>                                     <C>                    <C>                     <C>    
Balance, October 29, 1994                                    7,743                  12,593                  $  4.40
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares authorized for 1994 Director Stock Option Plan          400                       -                     -
Options granted                                             (3,550)                  3,550                  $ 10.39
Options exercised                                                -                  (1,416)                 $  2.80
Options canceled (1)                                           495                    (524)                 $  5.70
Shares canceled upon termination of
  1992 Director Option Plan                                    (91)                      -                     -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, October 28, 1995                                    4,997                  14,203                  $  6.01
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Additional shares authorized for 1988 Stock Option Plan      9,200                       -                     -
Options granted                                             (3,881)                  3,901                  $ 16.22
Options exercised                                                -                  (2,072)                 $  2.80
Options canceled (1)                                           451                    (454)                 $ 10.37
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, November 2, 1996                                   10,767                  15,578                  $  8.87
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Options granted                                             (4,081)                  4,081                  $ 23.33
Options exercised                                                -                  (2,432)                 $  4.21
Options canceled (1)                                           312                    (322)                 $ 14.13
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, November 1, 1997                                    6,998                  16,905                  $ 12.92
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

(1) Options canceled which were originally issued from the 1988 Stock Option
    Plan and the 1994 Director Option Plan are available for subsequent grants.
    The remaining options canceled in 1997, 1996 and 1995 were issued from the
    1980 Stock Option and 1992 Director Option Plans under which no further
    options will be granted.

                                       26
<PAGE>   20


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

At November 1, 1997,  options to purchase 3,434 shares of common stock were
exercisable  (3,588 at November 2, 1996 and 3,979 at October 28, 1995).

The following table summarizes information about options outstanding at November
1, 1997:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    OUTSTANDING OPTIONS                                  OPTIONS EXERCISABLE
                      --------------------------------------------------             ------------------------------
                                        WEIGHTED AVERAGE        WEIGHTED                                   WEIGHTED
RANGE OF                       NUMBER          REMAINING         AVERAGE                  NUMBER            AVERAGE
EXERCISE               OUTSTANDING AT        CONTRACTUAL        EXERCISE             EXERCISABLE           EXERCISE
PRICE                         11/1/97       LIFE (YEARS)           PRICE              AT 11/1/97              PRICE
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<C>                             <C>                 <C>         <C>                        <C>             <C>    
$   1.96 - $  6.63              2,771               4.02        $   3.03                   2,726           $  2.98
$   7.04 - $ 13.44              6,434               6.69        $   8.88                     679           $  7.81
$  14.63 - $ 20.25              3,707               8.10        $  16.32                      23           $ 17.59
$  20.44 - $ 26.75              3,905               9.31        $  23.08                       6           $ 24.53
$  27.38 - $ 34.63                 88               9.70        $  30.38                       -           $  -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$   1.96 - $ 34.63             16,905               7.18        $  12.92                   3,434           $  4.07
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company has an employee stock purchase plan ("ESPP") that allows eligible
employees to purchase, through payroll deductions, shares of the Company's
common stock at 85% of the fair market value at specified dates. Employees
purchased 579,200 shares in 1997 (664,200 and 835,700 in 1996 and 1995,
respectively) for $10.2 million ($9.0 million and $6.9 million in 1996 and 1995,
respectively). At November 1, 1997, 964,200 common shares remained available for
issuance under the stock purchase plan.

Under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan, a maximum of 2,700,000 shares of common
stock was authorized for awards by the Company to key employees for nominal
consideration. This plan succeeded the Company's 1978 Restricted Stock Plan
which provided for the issuance of up to 7,372,800 shares of common stock.
Shares awarded from both plans are restricted as to transfer, usually for a
period of five years and, under certain conditions, may be subject to repurchase
by the Company at the original purchase price per share. Shares awarded under
the Company's restricted stock plans, net of cancellations, for 1997, 1996 and
1995 were 168,000, 212,000 and 20,000, respectively. The fair market value of
the shares at the date of award was accounted for as deferred compensation and
is being amortized over the restricted period. During 1997, 1996 and 1995,
$2,309,000, $1,949,000 and $1,672,000, respectively, of such compensation was
charged to expense. At November 1, 1997, there were 815,000 shares of common
stock available for issuance under the 1991 Restricted Stock Plan.


As of November 1, 1997, a total of 36,647,062 common shares were reserved for
issuance under the Company's stock plans.

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

As permitted under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," the Company has elected to follow
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees," and related Interpretations, in accounting for stock-based awards to
employees. Under APB 25, the Company generally recognized no compensation
expense with respect to such awards.

                                       27
<PAGE>   21


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is required by
FAS 123 for awards granted after October 28, 1995 as if the Company had
accounted for its stock-based awards to employees under the fair value method of
FAS 123. The fair value of the Company's stock-based awards to employees was
estimated using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Black-Scholes option
valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded
options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In
addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective
assumptions, including the expected stock price volatility. Because the
Company's stock-based awards to employees have characteristics significantly
different from those of traded options, and because changes in the subjective
input assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimate, in management's
opinion, the existing models do not necessarily provide a reliable single
measure of the fair value of its stock-based awards to employees. The fair value
of the Company's stock-based awards to employees was estimated assuming no
expected dividends and the following weighted average assumptions:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           OPTIONS                             ESPP
                                                   ----------------------             -----------------------
                                                   1997              1996             1997              1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>               <C>              <C>               <C>
         Expected life (years)                      6.2               6.2              1.0               1.0
         Expected stock price volatility           47.7%             43.5%            56.0%             55.8%
         Risk-free interest rate                    6.2%              5.7%             5.8%              5.8%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The following is a summary of weighted average grant date values generated by
application of the Black-Scholes model:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              WEIGHTED AVERAGE GRANT DATE VALUE
                                                                                      1997              1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                 <C>                 <C>  
         Stock option plans                                                         $ 12.68             $8.36
         ESPP                                                                       $  9.53             $7.37
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

As required under FAS 123, the reported net income and earnings per share have
been presented to reflect the impact had the Company been required to include
the amortization of the Black-Scholes option value as expense. For purposes of
this disclosure, the estimated fair value of the options is amortized to expense
over the options' vesting periods. The Company's pro forma information follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                      1997              1996
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                 <C>              <C>     
Pro forma net income                                                                $170,173         $170,717
Pro forma earnings per share                                                           $0.97            $1.00
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The effects on pro forma disclosures of applying FAS 123 are not likely to be
representative of the effects on pro forma disclosures of future years. Because
FAS 123 is applicable only to options granted subsequent to October 28, 1995,
the pro forma effect will not be fully reflected until 2000.

PREFERRED STOCK

The Company has 500,000 authorized shares of $1.00 par value Preferred Stock.
The Board of Directors is authorized to fix designations, relative rights,
preferences and limitations on the preferred stock at the time of issuance.

COMMON STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

In 1988, the Board of Directors adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan which was
amended in 1989. Pursuant to the Stockholder Rights Plan, each share of common
stock has an associated right. Under certain circumstances, each right entitles
the holder to purchase from the Company one share of common stock at an exercise
price of $20.00 per share, subject to adjustment.

                                       28
<PAGE>   22


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The rights are not exercisable and cannot be transferred separately from the
common stock until ten days after a person acquires 20% or more or makes a
tender offer for 30% or more of the Company's common stock. If, after the rights
become exercisable, (i) any person becomes the owner of 20% or more of the
Company's common stock, or (ii) the Company is the surviving entity in a merger
with a 20% or more stockholder, or (iii) a 20% or more stockholder engages in
certain "self-dealing" transactions with the Company, each right not owned by
such person will entitle its holder to purchase, at the right's exercise price,
common stock having a value of two times the exercise price of the right. In
addition, if the Company is either (i) acquired in a merger or other business
combination in which the Company is not the surviving entity, or (ii) sells or
transfers 50% or more of its assets or earning power to another party, each
right will entitle its holder to purchase, upon exercise, common stock of the
acquiring Company having a value equal to two times the exercise price of the
right.

The rights have certain anti-takeover effects, in that they would cause
substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire a significant
interest in the Company on terms not approved by the Board of Directors. The
rights expire on February 12, 1998 but may be redeemed by the Company for $.0067
per right at any time prior to the tenth day following a person's acquisition of
20% or more of the Company's common stock. So long as the rights are not
separately transferable, the Company will issue one right with each new share of
common stock issued.

10.  RETIREMENT PLANS

The Company and its subsidiaries have various savings and retirement plans
covering substantially all employees. The Company maintains a defined
contribution plan for the benefit of its eligible United States employees. This
plan provides for Company contributions of up to 5% of each participant's total
eligible compensation. In addition, the Company contributed an amount equal to
each participant's contribution, if any, up to a maximum of 2% of each
participant's total eligible compensation. During fiscal 1996, the Company's
contributions increased to match an additional 50% of employee contributions
between 2% and 4% of total eligible compensation. The Company also has various
defined benefit pension and other retirement plans for certain foreign employees
that are consistent with local statutes and practices. The total expense related
to all of the Company's retirement plans in 1997, 1996 and 1995 was $19 million,
$17 million and $14 million, respectively, which primarily consists of costs
related to the domestic defined contribution plan. Also included in total
expense is pension expense related to foreign defined benefit plans of
approximately $3 million for 1997, 1996 and 1995. Summary data related to these
foreign plans at November 1, 1997 is as follows: accumulated benefit obligation,
substantially vested, of $26 million; projected benefit obligation of $51
million; plan assets at fair value of $51 million; discount rates ranging from
4% to 12%; compensation increase rates ranging from 3% to 10% and expected rate
of return on assets ranging from 0% to 13%.

                                       29
<PAGE>   23


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

11.  INCOME TAXES

The reconciliation of income tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory rates to
income tax expense is as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                       LIABILITY METHOD
                                                                                       ----------------
                                                                               1997          1996           1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>           <C>            <C>  
U.S. federal statutory tax rate                                               35.0%         35.0%          35.0%
Income tax provision reconciliation:
   Tax at statutory rate                                                 $   82,578    $   80,759      $  55,803
   Irish income subject to lower tax rate                                   (19,880)      (17,813)       (13,436)
   Change in valuation allowance                                             (1,835)       (2,641)             -
   State income taxes, net of federal benefit                                   964         1,338          1,833
   Research and development tax credits                                      (5,000)       (1,300)          (325)
   Foreign Sales Corporation                                                 (3,161)       (3,575)        (3,200)
   Amortization of goodwill                                                     528           506            503
   Net foreign tax in excess of (less than)
     U.S. federal statutory tax rate                                          2,765           957         (1,076)
   Other, net                                                                   701           608             63
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total income tax provision                                          $   57,660    $   58,839      $  40,165
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

For financial reporting purposes, income before income taxes includes the
following components:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               1997             1996              1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>              <C>               <C>       
Pretax income:
   Domestic                                                              $   84,599       $  101,760        $   76,230
   Foreign                                                                  151,280          128,980            83,205
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         $  235,879       $  230,740        $  159,435
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               1997             1996              1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                      <C>              <C>               <C>       
Current:
   Federal                                                               $   35,500       $   34,278        $   32,860
   Foreign                                                                   26,811           15,737            16,734
   State                                                                      1,483            2,100             2,820
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total current                                                            $   63,794       $   52,115        $   52,414
=======================================================================================================================

Deferred (prepaid):
   Federal                                                               $   (3,364)      $    1,318        $  (10,887)
   Foreign                                                                   (2,770)           5,406            (1,362)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred (prepaid)                                                 $   (6,134)      $    6,724        $  (12,249)
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The Company's practice is to reinvest indefinitely the earnings of certain
international subsidiaries. Accordingly, no U.S. income taxes have been provided
for approximately $470,468,000 of unremitted earnings of international
subsidiaries.

The Company has recorded a valuation allowance to reflect the estimated amount
of deferred tax assets that may not be realized due to the expiration of book
and tax capital losses. For tax purposes, the Company has a capital tax loss
carryforward of approximately $13,009,000 expiring through the year 2002. The
balance for the valuation allowance for deferred assets was $5.6 million at
November 1, 1997, $7.4 million at November 2, 1996 and $10.0 million at October
28, 1995.

                                       30
<PAGE>   24


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

The significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities
for the fiscal years ended November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28,
1995 are as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                   1997            1996           1995
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                           <C>             <C>            <C>      
Deferred tax assets:
   Inventory reserves                                                         $  21,734       $  20,061      $  18,309
   Capital loss carryover                                                         5,559           7,394          8,513
   Deferred income on shipments to distributors                                  13,601          12,518          7,898
   Reserves for compensation and benefits                                         6,965           5,330          4,274
   Restricted stock                                                               2,689           1,893          2,031
   Intercompany profits in foreign inventories                                    4,973           3,965          5,335
   Reserve for bad debts                                                          6,508           2,242          1,171
   Foreign tax credits                                                            1,795             381          2,301
   Other                                                                          2,289           1,739          4,646
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total gross deferred tax assets                                             66,113          55,523         54,478
     Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets                                 (5,559)         (7,394)       (10,035)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total deferred tax assets                                              $  60,554       $  48,129      $  44,443
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred tax liabilities:
   Depreciation                                                               $ (26,533)      $ (20,242)     $  (9,832)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total gross deferred liabilities                                         $ (26,533)      $ (20,242)     $  (9,832)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Net deferred tax assets                                                $  34,021       $  27,887      $  34,611
=======================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       31

<PAGE>   25


               REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Analog Devices, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Analog Devices,
Inc. as of November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995, and the
related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended November 1, 1997. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Analog
Devices, Inc. at November 1, 1997, November 2, 1996 and October 28, 1995, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended November 1, 1997, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.


                                                /s/  Ernst & Young LLP
                                                ------------------------------


Boston, Massachusetts
December 2, 1997


                                       32
<PAGE>   26


                              ANALOG DEVICES, INC.

                 SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)


Quarterly financial information for fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996 (thousands of
dollars except as noted):
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                    4Q97       3Q97       2Q97       1Q97       4Q96       3Q96       2Q96       1Q96
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>        <C>    
Net sales                         332,479    318,139    300,813    292,063    304,647    305,042    303,328    280,769
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cost of sales                     164,336    158,816    150,544    148,621    152,121    152,331    150,362    138,219
Gross margin                      168,143    159,323    150,269    143,442    152,526    152,711    152,966    142,550
   % of sales                        51%        50%        50%        49%        50%        50%        50%        51%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating expenses:
   Research and development        52,781     49,895     47,768     45,704     46,498     45,569     44,848     40,857
   Selling, marketing, general
     and administrative            50,684     48,939     46,859     45,131     48,460     48,562     50,017     48,803
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total operating expenses          103,465     98,834     94,627     90,835     94,958     94,131     94,865     89,660
   % of sales                        31%        31%        31%        31%        31%        31%        31%        32%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Operating income                   64,678     60,489     55,642     52,607     57,568     58,580     58,101     52,890
   % of sales                        20%        19%        19%        18%        19%        19%        19%        19%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nonoperating expenses (income):
   Interest expense                 2,804      2,950      2,973      3,780      3,155      3,266      3,040      1,828
   Interest income                 (4,642)    (4,166)    (3,976)    (3,394)    (4,141)    (3,688)    (4,807)    (3,899)
   Other                              325        413        477         (7)       626       (181)       417        783
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total nonoperating
   (income) expense                (1,513)      (803)      (526)       379       (360)      (603)    (1,350)    (1,288)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before income taxes         66,191     61,292     56,168     52,228     57,928     59,183     59,451     54,178
   % of sales                        20%        19%        19%        18%        19%        19%        20%        19%
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for income taxes         15,238     15,323     14,051     13,048     13,908     15,387     15,458     14,086
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                         50,953     45,969     42,117     39,180     44,020     43,796     43,993     40,092
   % of sales                        15%        14%        14%        13%        14%        14%        15%        14%
   Per share                          .29        .27        .25        .23        .26        .26        .26        .25
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares used to compute
   earnings per share
   (in thousands)                 179,408    177,773    176,721    175,950    174,082    172,921    172,576    165,576
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


                                       33
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>12
<DESCRIPTION>SUBSIDIARIES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1



                                                                      EXHIBIT 21


                                  SUBSIDIARIES


The following is a list of the Company's subsidiaries:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                                 SECURITIES OWNED BY
                                                                           ORGANIZED              REGISTRANT AS OF
                                                                          UNDER LAW OF            NOVEMBER 1, 1997
                                                                          ------------            ----------------
<S>                                                                    <C>                              <C> 
   Analog Devices Limited                                               United Kingdom                   100%
   Analog Devices, GmbH                                                 Germany                          100%
   Analog Devices, S.A.                                                 France                           100%
   Analog Devices, K.K.                                                 Japan                            100%
   Analog Devices APS                                                   Denmark                          100%
   Analog Devices Nederland, B.V.                                       The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices International, Inc.                                   Massachusetts                    100%
   Analog Devices Israel, Ltd.                                          Israel                           100%
   Analog Devices A.B.                                                  Sweden                           100%
   Analog Devices SRL                                                   Italy                            100%
   Analog Devices, HDLSGESMBH M.B.H.                                    Austria                          100%
   Analog Devices Korea, Ltd.                                           Korea                            100%
   Analog Devices, B.V.                                                 The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices Finance N.V.                                          Netherlands Antilles             100%
   Analog Devices Holdings, B.V.                                        The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices Research & Development Ltd.                           Ireland                          100%
   Analog Devices (Philippines), Inc.                                   The Philippines                  100%
   Analog Devices Foreign Sales
     Corporation, B.V.                                                  The Netherlands                  100%
   Analog Devices Foundry Services, Inc.                                Delaware                         100%
   Analog Devices Asian Sales, Inc.                                     Delaware                         100%
   Analog Devices Taiwan, Ltd.                                          Taiwan                           100%
   Analog Devices Ireland, Ltd.                                         Ireland                          100%
   Analog Devices Hong Kong, Ltd.                                       Hong Kong                        100%
   Analog Devices Pty, Ltd.                                             Australia                        100%
   Analog Devices India Private Limited                                 India                            100%
   Analog Devices Gen. Trias, Inc.                                      Philippines                      100%
   Analog Devices International Financial Services Company              Ireland                          100%
   Analog Devices Foreign Sales Corporation                             Barbados                         100%
   Mosaic Microsystems Limited                                          United Kingdom                   100%
   Analog Development (Israel) 1996 Ltd.                                Israel                           100%
   Analog Devices (China) Co. Ltd.                                      China                            100%
   Analyzed Investments, Ltd.                                           Ireland                           54%
   Analog/NCT Supply Ltd.                                               Delaware                          50%
   Analog Devices Realty Holdings, Inc.                                 Philippines                       40%
   WaferTech, LLC                                                       Delaware                          18%
   Analog Supplies Company                                              Japan                             15%

</TABLE>

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>13
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF AUDITORS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>   1


                                                                      EXHIBIT 23




               CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)
of Analog Devices, Inc. of our report dated December 2, 1997, included in the
1997 Annual Report to Shareholders of Analog Devices, Inc.

Our audit also included the financial statement schedule of Analog Devices, Inc.
listed in Item 14(a). This schedule is the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this schedule based
on our audits. In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to
above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements and
related Prospectuses (Form S-8 Nos. 2-63561, 2-69122, 2-77321, 2-90023, 2-95495,
33-2502, 33-4067, 33-22604, 33-22605, 33-29484, 33-39851, 33-39852, 33-43128,
33-46520, 33-46521, 33-60696, 33-60642, 33-61427, 33-64849, 333-04771,
333-04819, 333-04821 and 333-08493 and Form S-3 Nos. 333-08505, 333-08509 and
333-17651) of Analog Devices, Inc. of our report dated December 2, 1997, with
respect to the consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by
reference, and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to
the financial statement schedule included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of
Analog Devices, Inc.


                                                ERNST & YOUNG LLP



Boston, Massachusetts
January 23, 1998
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>14
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>


<ARTICLE> 5
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000
<CURRENCY> U.S. DOLLARS
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   YEAR
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          NOV-01-1997
<PERIOD-START>                             NOV-03-1996
<PERIOD-END>                               NOV-01-1997
<EXCHANGE-RATE>                                      1
<CASH>                                         289,601
<SECURITIES>                                    51,006
<RECEIVABLES>                                  295,893
<ALLOWANCES>                                    40,007
<INVENTORY>                                    225,966
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                               895,429
<PP&E>                                       1,230,675
<DEPRECIATION>                                 569,040
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                               1,763,853
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                          274,394
<BONDS>                                        310,000
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                        26,991
<OTHER-SE>                                   1,061,139
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                 1,763,853
<SALES>                                      1,243,494
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                             1,243,494
<CGS>                                          622,317
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                  622,317
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                               387,761
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                     0
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                              12,507
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                235,879
<INCOME-TAX>                                    57,660
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                            178,219
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                   178,219
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                    $1.04
<EPS-DILUTED>                                    $1.04
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
